Superseded and extended in hep-th/0105110 and hep-th/0208112.
See cond-mat/0010425 and cond-mat/0010426.
Corrected misprints and omissions.
We study and relate certain actions and extensions involving 2-groups.
comment on cond-mat/97063007 and cond-mat/9707289
A short and mean paper.
(Minor corrections and reference added)
We generalize and prove conjectures of Corteel and Lovejoy, related to overpartitions and divisor functions.
We organize and review some material from various sources about prepotentials, Riemann surfaces and kernels, WDVV, and the renormalization group, provide some further connections and information, and indicate some directions and problems.
We investigate which homogeneous polynomials are determined by their Jacobian ideals, and extend and complete previous results due to J. Carlson and Ph. Griffiths, K. Ueda and M. Yoshinaga, and A. Dimca and E. Sernesi.
The structure and dynamics of the standard model and gravity are described by a Clifford valued connection and its curvature.
A discrete field formalism exposes the physical meaning and the origins of gauge fields and of their symmetries and singularities.
We review basic notions and methods of noncommutative geometry and their applications to analysis and geometry on foliated manifolds.
Generalizations and extensions of a first order autoregressive model of Lawrance and Lewis (1981) are considered and characterized here.
Reply to Comments by Lambrecht, Jaekel, and Reynaud, and by Garcia and Levanyuk, submitted to Physical Review Letters.
In this work in progress, we discuss independence and interpolation and related topics for classical, modal, and non-monotonic logics.
In the article, some Huygens and Wilker type inequalities involving trigonometric and hyperbolic functions are refined and sharpened.
We introduce numerical characteristics of Sylvester and Hadamard matrices and give their estimates and some of their applications.
We review the theory of Cheeger constants for graphs and quantum graphs and their present and envisaged applications.
(Generalizes theorem of Atiyah and Mumford.)
Subj-class: Disordered Systems and Neural Networks
Reply to Bernevig, Giuliano, and Laughlin: cond-mat/0410147
Withdrawn. Silly notion and out of context.
BLACK HOLES ON EARTH AND IN SPACE
(a few typos and an error corrected)
Minor corrections made and several references changed.
Withdrawn. Generalized and subsumed by math.QA/0405249
We define and give axioms for Garside and locally Garside categories. We give an application to Coxeter and Artin groups and Deligne-Lusztig varieties.
Based on relativistic velocity addition and the conservation of momentum and energy, I present derivations of the expressions for the relativistic momentum and kinetic energy, and $E=mc^2$.
We define a symmetry for a Finsler space with Chern connection and investigate its implementation and properties and find a relation between them and flag curvature.
Recent studies in ATLAS and CMS experiments for the reconstruction and identification of electrons and photons using full Monte Carlo and testbeam data are reported
We present the gluon-gluon and photon-gluon helicity amplitudes for color singlet and octet charmonium production in polarized and unpolarized hadron-hadron and photon-hadron collisions.
I discuss and connect a number of topics in small-x physics at HERA and at LHC, pointing out recent progress and open questions in theory and phenomenology.
In this paper, some monotonicity and concavity results of several functions involving the psi and polygamma functions are proved, and then some known inequalities are extended and generalized.
We suggest new types and interpretation of complex and hypercomplex numbers for which the commutative, associative, and distributive laws and the norm axioms are trivially satisfied.
This paper and abstract have been withdrawn.
A review of MHD dynamos and turbulence.
Revised entirely and a new figure added.
In this paper we compare search and inference in graphical models through the new framework of AND/OR search. Specifically, we compare Variable Elimination (VE) and memoryintensive AND/OR Search (AO) and place algorithms such as graph-based backjumping and no-good and good learning, as well as Recursive Conditioning [7] and Value Elimination [2] within the AND/OR search framework.
Principles, Techniques and Practice of Spreadsheet Style
The pasch configuration and Steiner triple systems
We define and study hyperbolic extensions.
We define and study "warp forcing".
We define and study "hyperbolic forcing".
We study dicritical divisors and Rees valuations.
We discuss the principle tools and results and state a few open problems concerning the classification and topology of plane sextics and trigonal curves in ruled surfaces.
We investigate several technical and conceptual questions.
This talk discusses the theory of inclusive and exclusive radiative B decays, emphasizing the interplay of perturbative and non-perturbative effects and the importance CP and isospin asymmetries.
In this paper, by a concise and elementary approach, we sharpen and generalize Shafer's inequality for the arc sine function, and some known results are extended and generalized.
Some conjectures and open problems in convex geometry are presented, and their physical origin, meaning, and importance, for quantum theory and generic statistical theories, are briefly discussed.
In this paper, we study the degenerate Eulerian polynomials and numbers and give some new and interesting identities associated with several special numbers and polynomials.
We introduce superequivalence and superuniform spaces.
In this paper, we study the Carlitz's degenerate Bernoulli numbers and polynomials and give some formulae and identities related to those numbers and polynomials.
This note corrects conditions in Proposition 3.4 and Theorem 5.2(ii) and comments on imprecisions in Propositions 4.2 and 4.4 in Fissler and Ziegel (2016).
Explaining Cybersecurity with Films and the Arts
The SARS-CoV-2 virus and COVID-19 disease have posed unprecedented and overwhelming demand, challenges and opportunities to domain, model and data driven modeling. This paper provides a comprehensive review of the challenges, tasks, methods, progress, gaps and opportunities in relation to modeling COVID-19 problems, data and objectives. It constructs a research landscape of COVID-19 modeling tasks and methods, and further categorizes, summarizes, compares and discusses the related methods and progress of modeling COVID-19 epidemic transmission processes and dynamics, case identification and tracing, infection diagnosis and medical treatments, non-pharmaceutical interventions and their effects, drug and vaccine development, psychological, economic and social influence and impact, and misinformation, etc. The modeling methods involve mathematical and statistical models, domain-driven modeling by epidemiological compartmental models, medical and biomedical analysis, AI and data science in particular shallow and deep machine learning, simulation modeling, social science methods, and hybrid modeling.
The aim of this paper is to introduce Bell polynomials and numbers of the second kind and poly-Bell polynomials and numbers of the second kind, and to derive their explicit expressions, recurrence relations and some identities involving those polynomials and numbers. We also consider degenerate versions of those polynomials and numbers, namely degenerate Bell polynomials and numbers of the second kind and degenerate poly-Bell polynomials and numbers of the second kind, and deduce their similar results.
In this revised version, we add some expository material and references and make some minor corrections.
Supermassive binary black holes and their influence on the structure and evolution of galaxies is reviewed.
This conference covered dark matter particle properties and searches, lensing by dark matter, and dark matter distributions in galaxies and clusters; dark energy phenomenology and theoretical models; surveys of structure and galaxy formation, large scale simulations and neutrino cosmology; astronomy and star formation; cosmic rays; cosmic microwave background; inflation in the primordial universe, cosmic strings, brane cosmology, and the fine-structure constant.
Kinematical and dynamical properties of chaotic systems are reviewed and a few applications are described.
It is shown that the one- and two-dimensional solids may exist and melt
An introduction and overview is given of the theory of spin glasses and its application.
Answer to cond-mat/0106005 and cond-mat/0106006 and additional notes are given concerning to my previous comment (cond-mat/0105324).
We introduce and study the essential inputs (variables) for terms (trees) and tree automata.
This is intended as an introduction to and review of the work of V, Arnold and his collaborators on the theory of Lagrangian and Legendrian submanifolds and their associated maps. The theory is illustrated by applications to Hamilton-Jacobi theory and the eikonal equation, with an emphasis on null surfaces and wavefronts and their associated caustics and singularities.
We review some material connecting gravity and the quantum potential and provide a few new observations.
We review recent experimental results on spectroscopy and lifetime of bottom and charm hadrons.
Recent CLEO results on electromagnetic and hadronic transitions in charmonium and bottomonium systems are reviewed.
The most recent beauty and charm results from the ZEUS and H1 collaborations are presented.
Possible explanations of solar neutrino and atmospheric neutrino anomalies are summarized and future tests discussed.
The spectra of states containing charmed and beauty quarks, and their regularities, are reviewed.
A qualitative (and selective) discussion of current activities and problems in the field is given.
The development of supergravity unified models and their implications for current and future experiments are discussed.
We briefly review the present theoretical and experimental knowledge on Delta_g and J_g.
We review some recent results and open problems on four fermion physics at LEP2 and beyond
Current status and future prospect of structure function and parton distribution studies are presented.
Different formalisms for unintegrated parton densities are discussed, and some results and applications are presented.
We review some recent developments in top quark production and decay at current and future colliders.
Objective, Signal cross section, SM background and chosen cuts, Event-shape variables, Results and discussion.
Some aspects and applications of $ \sigma$-models in particle and condensed matter physics are briefly reviewed.
Some formulas and speculations are presented relative to integrable systems and quantum mechanics.
We considered real, p-adic and adelic noncommutative scalar solitons and obtained some new results.
Basic concepts of higher local fields and topologies on their additive and multiplicative groups are introduced.
Gel'fand triples of test and generalized functionals in Gaussian spaces are constructed and characterized.
A relation between Weyl connections and Gaussian thermostats is exposed and exploited.
In this paper I study Ramanujan hypergraps and both abstract and explicit constructions is given.
Concentration of measure is studied, and obtained, for stable and related random vectors.
Algebraic and combinatorial properties of a monomial ideal and its radical are compared.
We construct the q-analogue of Euler-Barnes' numbers and polynomials, and investigate their some properties.
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Discussion of ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
Rejoinder to ``Breakdown and groups'' by P. L. Davies and U. Gather [math.ST/0508497]
We review definitions and basic properties of operads, PROPs and algebras over these structures.
An historical overview of Kronecker function rings, Nagata rings, and related star and semistar operations
We give a combinatorial extension of the classical inequalities of Maclaurin about symmetric functions of several variables. We discuss two problems - one analytical and another combinatorial - and show that they are in some sense equaivalent. These results complete and extend earlier results of Motzkin and Straus, Khadzhiivanov, Sos and Straus, Fisher and Ryan, and Petingi and Rodriguez.
We prove existence of reflexive sheaves on singular surfaces and threefolds with prescribed numerical invariants and study their moduli.
We introduce the notion of multielement order separability and study this property for free groups and free products.
We describe briefly the POWHEG method and present results for single-top s- and t-channel production at hadron colliders.
Selected topics in Strangeness Nuclear Physics are reviewed: Lambda hypernuclear spectroscopy and structure, multistrangeness, and Kbar mesons in nuclei
We state conjectures on the relationships between automorphic representations and Galois representations, and give evidence for them.
We describe the design and elements of implementation of the Akamai Maui Short Course (AMSC). The AMSC contains four full inquiry activities each of which builds on those previous: Camera Obscura and Sun Shadows, Lenses and Refraction, Color and Light, and the Adaptive Optics Demonstrator. In addition we describe the workings of two additional strands: 1) Communication, and 2) Science, Technology and Society. We also discuss our assessment methods and our results.
We review some general and recent results on the characterization and construction of timelike supersymmetric solutions of 4-dimensional supergravity theories.
A simple and elementary derivation of values at integer points for the Riemann's zeta and related functions is reported.
This work is intended to provide an introduction to multiwavelength observations of low-mass X-ray binaries and the techniques used to analyze and interpret their data. The focus will primarily be on ultraviolet, optical, and infrared observations and their connections to other wavelengths. The topics covered include: outbursts of soft X-ray transients, accretion disk spectral energy distributions, orbital lightcurves in luminous and quiescent states, super-orbital and sub-orbital variability, line spectra, system parameter determinations, and echo-mapping and other rapid correlated variability.
We describe the transpose operator for self-projective and symmetric coalgebras in terms of the syzygy and Nakayama functors.
We discuss possible relationships between geometric and topological interactions on one side and physical interactions on the other side.
We review recent results on diffraction at HERA and discuss their interpretation in the perturbative and non-perturbative regimes.
Details are provided how GAPP evaluates the strong coupling constant from Z and tau decays and the corresponding uncertainties.
We prove the consistency of a strong polarized relation for a cardinal and its successor, using pcf and forcing
We give necessary and sufficient existence criteria, and methods for finding, continuous solutions of linear equations whose coefficients are polynomials.
Recent developments regarding index and overlap construction for staggered fermions are reviewed, highlighting the surprising and unexpected aspects.
We study group models for fusion systems and construct homology decompositions for the models of Robinson and Leary-Stancu type.
Sumedh Anathpindika surveys astronomy in India and finds a lively and developing community as well as great public interest.
We define and study the invariant linear and nonlinear horizontal double complexes of a local Lie group.
I discuss the notion of asymptotic safety and possible applications to quantum field theories of gravity and matter.
I prove the group theory analogues of some Lie and Leibniz algebra results on F-hypercentral and F-hypereccentric modules.
In this note, we introduce some models of pedestrian traffic and prove existence and uniqueness for these models.
This text provides an introduction and complements to some basic constructions and results in 2-representation theory of Kac-Moody algebras.
The old knowledge about interrelation among T-matrix, K-matrix and bare poles is summarized and put into modern perspective.
We determine the 2-modular and 3-modular character tables of the sporadic simple Harada-Norton group and its automorphism group.
We study tetrahedra and the space of tetrahedra from the viewpoint of local and global maxima for intrinsic distance functions.
In this paper we formulate generalised Isogeny, Mumford-Tate and Shafarevich conjectures and prove that they are equivalent.
We present a summary of recent and older results on Bessel integrals and their relation with zeta numbers.
We generalize the injectivity theorem of Esnault and Viehweg, and apply it to the structure of log canonical type divisors.
I briefly explore some relevant connections and differences between the evolutionary paths of dwarf galaxies and globular clusters.
In this paper, we derive some new and interesting idebtities for Bernoulli, Euler and Hermite polynomials associated with Chebyshev polynomials.
A detailed survey of the Lonely Runner Conjecture and its connection between Diophantine approximation and View-obstruction problems.
We introduce classical and quantum antifields in the reparametrization-invariant effective action, and derive a deformed classical master equation.
In this paper we investigate weighted composition operators between weak and strong vector valued weighted Bergman spaces and Hardy spaces.
Here we describe a system for personal and professional management and analysis of bio-medical images captured using off-the-shelf, consumer-grade imaging devices such as scanners, digital cameras, cellphones, webcams and tablet PCs. Specifically, we describe an implementation of this system for the analysis, monitoring and tracking of conditions and features of human feet using a flatbed scanner as the image capture device and a custom-designed set of algorithms and software to manage and analyze the acquired data.
This White Paper describes recent progress and future opportunities in the area of fundamental symmetries and neutrinos.
We examine and compare several different classes of "balanced" block codes over q-ary alphabets, namely symbol-balanced (SB) codes, charge-balanced (CB) codes, and polarity-balanced (PB) codes. Known results on the maximum size and asymptotic minimal redundancy of SB and CB codes are reviewed. We then determine the maximum size and asymptotic minimal redundancy of PB codes and of codes which are both CB and PB. We also propose efficient Knuth-like encoders and decoders for all these types of balanced codes.
We introduce the classical Jung theorem and fixed point theorems and prove similar ones for $p$-uniformly convex spaces.
We give in this article necessary and sufficient conditions on the topology of rationally and polynomially convex domains.
We present the most recent W and Z production, asymmetries, and V+jets results from the Tevatron collider at sqrt(s) = 1.96 TeV, analyzing data collected by CDF and DZero detectors between 2002-2011. The results include the measurements of the W and Z bosons properties, include boson p_T and asymmetries measurements, and also the W and Z boson plus jets productions. Those measurements provide the precision tests on the electroweak in Standard Model (SM), and high order theoretical predictions.
This corrects and amplifies some comments made in a paper by Robert Bieri and the author with the above title.
We calculate in detail the annihilation of Muonium into two-neutrino final state and two-neutrino and a photon state.
The electronic structure and thermoelectric properties of are studied by the first principles and the semiclassical BoltzTrap theory.
We define and study the ridgelet transform of (Lizorkin) distributions. We establish connections with the Radon and wavelet transforms.
The concepts and methods of factorization using transverse-momentum-dependent (TMD) parton densities and/or fragmentation functions are summarized.
Some relations between cohomological dimensions and depths of linked ideals are investigated and discussed by various examples.
We prove the uniqueness, the functoriality and the naturality of cylinder objects and path objects in closed simplicial model categories.
A MIMO Multi-hop Control Network (MCN) consists of a MIMO LTI system where the communication between sensors, actuators and computational units is supported by a (wireless) multi-hop communication network, and data flow is performed using scheduling and routing of sensing and actuation data. We provide necessary and sufficient conditions on the plant dynamics and on the communication protocol configuration such that the Fault Detection and Isolation (FDI) problem of failures and malicious attacks to communication nodes can be solved.
We present a short and completely elementary proof for a double sum studied by Brent and Osburn in arXiv:1309.2795v2.
This paper discusses approaches and environments for carrying out analytics on Clouds for Big Data applications. It revolves around four important areas of analytics and Big Data, namely (i) data management and supporting architectures; (ii) model development and scoring; (iii) visualisation and user interaction; and (iv) business models. Through a detailed survey, we identify possible gaps in technology and provide recommendations for the research community on future directions on Cloud-supported Big Data computing and analytics solutions.
Three families of quarks and leptons, one Higgs to rule them all, and in the darkness bind them.
Bernstein-Nikolskii inequalities and Riesz interpolation formula are established for eigenfunctions of Laplace operators and polynomials on compact homogeneous manifolds.
We use Serre construction and deformation to construct stable bundles and reflexive sheaves on Calabi-Yau threefolds.
We present a connection between tameness and non-forking frames.   In addition we improve results about independence and dimension.
Darboux integrability of semidiscrete and discrete 2D Toda lattices corresponding to Lie algebras of A and C series is proved.
The role of relativity and dynamics in defining the spin and orbital angular momentum content of hadronic systems is discussed.
The present status and and future plans of the physics program of Central Exclusive Production at RHIC are described.
Among the topics we discuss are certain joint densities (for sides and for angles), acuteness probabilities and bivariate Rice moments.
We show that the Kac-Moody 2-categories defined by Rouquier and by Khovanov and Lauda are the same.
In this note, we give solutions to Problems $9.4$ and $9.5,$ which were presented by Mesiar and Stup\v{n}anov\'{a} [{\it Open problems from the 12th International Conference on Fuzzy Set Theory and Its Applications}, Fuzzy Sets and Systems 261 (2015)] and by Borzov\'a-Moln\'arov\'a, Hal\u{c}inov\'a and Hutn\'ik, in [{\it The smallest semicopula-based universal integrals I: properties and characterizations,} Fuzzy Sets and Systems (2014), http://dx.doi.org/ 10.1016/j.fss.2014.09.024].
We define notions of generic dimension and generic transcendence degree between models of ZFC and give some examples.
In this note, we discuss the interactions between differential topology and isoparametric foliations, surveying some recent progress and open problems.
We introduce relative preresolving subcategories and precoresolving subcategories of an abelian category and define homological dimensions and codimensions relative to these subcategories respectively. We study the properties of these homological dimensions and codimensions and unify some important properties possessed by some known homological dimensions. Then we apply the obtained properties to special subcategories and in particular to module categories. Finally we propose some open questions and conjectures, which are closely related to the generalized Nakayama conjecture and the strong Nakayama conjecture.
We look at thin interpolating sequences and the role they play in uniform algebras, Hardy spaces, and model spaces.
We will provide algorithmic implementation with proofs of existence and uniqueness for the Absolute and Alternating Ostrowski Numeration Systems.
Combinatorial and topological aspects of monoids with an absorbing element and their associated algebras are considered. Phd thesis.
We give a short proof of a recent inequality of Audenaert, Datta and Ozols, and determine cases of equality.
A short review of similarities between dolphins and humans with the help of quantitative linguistics and information theory.
We give some results on a priori estimates and on estimates of type sup+inf and sup*inf.
We provide algorithms for the absolute and alternating Ostrowski Expansions of the continuum and provide proofs for their uniqueness.
With the worldwide third-generation mobile communication system gradually implemented, the future development of mobile communications has become a hot topic and evolution of the problem. This paper introduces the fourth generation mobile communication system and its performance and network structure and OFDM, software defined radio, smart antennas, IPv6 and other key technologies, and analyzes the relationship between 4G mobile communication system for mobile communications and 3G, and the evolution of communication systems do Prospect.
In this article we review our angle- and time-resolved photoemission studies (ARPES and trARPES) on various ferropnictides.
We solve the Kakeya needle problem and construct a Besicovitch and a Nikodym set for rectifiable sets.
Several topics presented and discussed at MESON2016 are highlighted, including pentaquarks, dibaryons and meson-nuclear bound states.
We give upper and lower bounds on the number of delta-matroids, and on the number of even delta-matroids.
We give some new refinements of Heinz inequality and an improvement of the reverse Young's inequality for scalars and we use them to establish new inequalities for operators and the Hilbert-Schmidt norm of matrices. We give a uniformly and abbreviated form of the inequalities presented by Kittaneh and Mansarah, and the inequalities presented by Kai and we obtain some of their operator and matrix versions.
We develop first-order logic and some extensions for incomplete information scenarios and consider related complexity issues.
We review the foundations and the applications of the statistical and the quark recombination model as hadronization models.
We propose ten puzzles in particle theory: quark, asymmetries of quantum numbers in the Standard Model, point particle and interaction-distance, mystic Higgs mechanism, possible violation of the Pauli Exclusion Principle and some basic principles, neutrino and its oscillation, uncertainty principle and superstring, the superposition principle and entangled state, the wave property and duality, dark matter and dark energy. In particular, it is discussed that quarks possess many questions, and are possibly only some symmetrical magic particles.
We show that Genocchi and Bernoulli numbers are closely related to Fibonacci polynomials and derive some q-analogues.
I review recent developments in the direct and indirect detection of dark matter and new candidates beyond the WIMP paradigm.
By using the sequential effect algebra theory, we establish the partitions and refinements of quantum logics and study their entropies.
WebNC is a system for efficiently sharing, retrieving and viewing web applications. Unlike existing screencasting and screensharing tools, WebNC is optimized to work with web pages where a lot of scrolling happens. WebNC uses a tile-based encoding to capture, transmit and deliver web applications, and relies only on dynamic HTML and JavaScript. The resulting webcasts require very little bandwidth and are viewable on any modern web browser including Firefox and Internet Explorer as well as browsers on the iPhone and Android platforms.
Theoretical and computational study of reflection and refraction of electromagnetic waves with $p$-polarized and normal incidence electric wave amplitude vector on anisotropic, inhomogeneous and linear medium has been done.   The medium used in this study is a model of susceptibility in the form of rank-2 tensor which its value depends on the frequency, position and time. Theoretical and computational formulation of transmittance and reflectance are then tested using vacuum and FeF$_2$ magnetic material.
We consider three generalizations of the isoperimetric problem to higher codimension and provide results on equilibrium, stability, and minimization.
We study the dynamics of atomic and molecular nano-clusters exposed to short and intense X-fel pulses
This report presents a theoretical complexity analysis and empirical scalability analysis of the Requirements and Architecture Decision Analyser (RADAR).
We investigate additional properties of protolocalizations, introduced and studied by F. Borceux, M. M. Clementino, M. Gran, and L. Sousa, and of protoadditive reflections, introduced and studied by T. Everaert and M. Gran. Among other things we show that there are no non-trivial (protolocalizations and) protoadditive reflections of the category of groups, and establish a connection between protolocalizations and Kurosh--Amitsur radicals of groups with multiple operators whose semisimple classes form subvarieties.
We present some identities dealing with reflexive and admissible relations and which, through a variety, are equivalent to congruence modularity.
Let X be a smooth projective complex curve, and let M be the moduli space of stable Higgs bundles on X (with genus g>1), with rank n and fixed determinant \xi, with n and deg(\xi) coprime. Let X' and \xi' be another such curve and line bundle, and M' the corresponding moduli space. We prove that if M and M' are isomorphic as algebraic varieties, then X and X' are isomorphic.
Proceedings of the 12th International Conference on Elastic and Diffractive Scattering (Blois Workshop) - Forward Physics and QCD
A method for the calculation of the conductance of nanoscale electrical junctions is extended to ab-initio electronic structure methods and applied to realistic models of metallic wires and break-junctions of sodium and gold. The method is systematically controllable and convergeable, and can be straightforwardly extended to include more complex processes and interactions. Important issues about the order in which are taken both the thermodynamic and the static (small field) limits are clarified, and characterized further through comparisons to model systems.
I provide a brief introduction to the theoretical ideas and phenomenological motivation for the Color Glass Condensate and the Glasma
This article contains general formulas for Tutte and Jones polynomial for families of knots and links given in Conway notation.
In this paper we address the existence, the asymptotic behavior and stability in $L^p$ and $L^{p,\infty}$, 3/2.
A very brief introduction to tropical and idempotent mathematics is presented. Applications to classical mechanics and geometry are especially examined.
We describe the astrophysical and numerical basis of N-body simulations, both of collisional stellar systems (dense star clusters and galactic centres) and collisionless stellar dynamics (galaxies and large-scale structure). We explain and discuss the state-of-the-art algorithms used for these quite different regimes, attempt to give a fair critique, and point out possible directions of future improvement and development. We briefly touch upon the history of N-body simulations and their most important results.
Using convexity and superquadracity we extend in this paper Euler Lagrange identity, Bohr's inequalitiy and the triangle inequality.
Discussion of "Bayesian Models and Methods in Public Policy and Government Settings" by S. E. Fienberg [arXiv:1108.2177]
Discussion of "Bayesian Models and Methods in Public Policy and Government Settings" by S. E. Fienberg [arXiv:1108.2177]
Rejoinder of "Bayesian Models and Methods in Public Policy and Government Settings" by S. E. Fienberg [arXiv:1108.2177]
We point out a mistake in the main statement of \cite{liu} and suggest and proof a correct statement.
Summary of results and overall conclusions on my works in the field of Bell inequalities and QM's alleged non-locality.
Let P=\circ(P_{1},P_{2},...,P_{n}) and Q=\circ(Q_{1},Q_{2},...,Q_{n}) be n\timesn circulant matrices where P_{n} and Q_{n} are nth Pell and Pell-Lucas numbers, respectively. The determinants of the matrices P and Q were expressed by the Pell and Pell-Lucas numbers. After, we prove that the matrices P and Q are the invertible for n\geq3 and then the inverses of the matrices P and Q are derived.
We consider the set of power functions defined on the set of positive real number, and their linear combinations. After recalling some properties of the gamma function, we give two general definitions of derivatives of positive and negative integers, positive and negative fractional orders.Properties of linearity and commutativity are studied and the notions of semi-equality,semi-linearity and semi-commutativity are introduced. Our approach gives a unified definition of the common derivatives and integrals and their generalization.
We discuss real, p-adic and q-deformed versions of an integral related to Liouville field theory and triple $L$-functions.
We exhibit isomorphisms of Grassmann spaces and their relationship with collineations and embeddings of the underlying projective spaces.
Boundedness and blow-up of solutions for a nonlinear elliptic system arising in probability and stochastic processes
Structural refinement, lattice microstrain and spontaneous strain analyses have been carried out and a phase diagram has been drawn.
This dissertation contributes to mathematical and algorithmic problems that arise in the analysis of network and biological data.
We introduce the notion of $B_1$-retract and investigate the connection between $B_1$- and $H_1$-retracts.
We collect some isomorphisms of categories and bijections of structures using the Kleisli and Eilenberg-Moore 2-adjunctions.
We survey the results on local and 2-local derivations on C*-algebras, von Neumann algebras and JB*-triples.
We discuss some global and semi-global existence and stability results obtained with the use of the conformal field equations.
We study a variant of algebraic K-theory and prove that it is stable and preserves module structures.
We classify isoparametric hypersurfaces in spheres with $(g,m)=(6,1)$ and thereby reprove a result of Dorfmeister and Neher.
We consider relationships between optimality conditions using Newton diagrams and sums of squares of polynomials and power series.
In this paper, we consider the degenerate Carlitz q-Bernoulli numbers and polynomials and we investigate some properties of those polynomials.
We extend the pointillist principles of Moon and Carrillo--de Guzm\'an to variational operators and jump functions.
Let $G_1=(V_1,E_1)$ and $G_2=(V_2,E_2)$ be two graphs with disjoint vertex sets $V_1$ and $V_2$. Let $u_1 \in V_1$ and $u_2 \in V_2$. A splice of $G_1$ and $G_2$ by vertices $u_1$ and $u_2$, $\mathcal{S}(G_1,G_2;u_1,u_2)$, is defined by identifying the vertices $u_1$ and $u_2$ in the union of $G_1$ and $G_2$. In this paper we calculate the Szeged, edge-Szeged, $PI$, vertex-$PI$ and eccentric connectivity indices of splice graphs.
A non-classical differential calculus on the quantum disc and cones is constructed and the associated integral is calculated.
In this paper we define and study properties and applications of a, b, x0, x1 elements in some special cases.
A Boolean $\sigma$-algebra $B$ is a measure algebra if and only if it is weakly distributive and uniformly concentrated.
We generalize and prove a result which was first shown by Zippin, and was explicitly formulated by Benyamini.
We introduce a ring and a field, generated by a semigroup, and we investigate some of their properties.
In this paper, we give some properties of the Tribonacci and Tribonacci-Lucas quaternions and obtain some identities for them.
Review of the third edition of "Interferometry and Synthesis in Radio Astronomy" by Thompson, Moran and Swenson
We survey some recent work on topological quantum computation with gapped boundaries and boundary defects and list some open problems.
The article retraces major events and milestones in the mutual influences between mathematical logic and computer science since the 1950s.
We present and discuss a number of known results and open problems abelian squares in words on small alphabets.
In this article, I discuss what AI can and cannot yet do, and the implications for humanity.
Impulse formulations of the Euler (and Navier-Stokes) equations were considered by Kuz'min [1] and Oseledets [2] and different impulse formulations are produced by various gauge transformations (Russo and Smereka[3]). The extension of the Kuz'min-Oseledets formulation to the compressible, barotropic case was considered by Tur and Yanovsky [4] and Shivamoggi [5]. Here, we construct exact solutions for the fluid impulse density for incompressible and compressible barotropic flows and discuss their physical signifcance.
Latent representations are the essence of deep generative models and determine their usefulness and power. For latent representations to be useful as generative concept representations, their latent space must support latent space interpolation, attribute vectors and concept vectors, among other things. We investigate and discuss latent variable modeling, including latent variable models, latent representations and latent spaces, particularly hierarchical latent representations and latent space vectors and geometry. Our focus is on that used in variational autoencoders and generative adversarial networks.
We revisit the pseudo-random sequence introduced by Ehrenfeucht and Mycielski and its connections with DeBruijn strings.
We show that there is an unexpected relation between free divisors and stability and coincidence thresholds for projective hypersurfaces.
We determine the structure of Leavitt path algebras of polynomial growth and discuss their automorphisms and involutions.
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Discussion of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
Rejoinder of "Estimating the historical and future probabilities of large terrorist events" by Aaron Clauset and Ryan Woodard [arXiv:1209.0089].
We discuss whether, to what extent and how a quantum computing device can be evaluated and simulated using classical tools.
Growth functions of Coxeter groups and the Poincare series of Kleinian and Fuchsian singularities are $2$-tangle $q$-fractions.
In this survey we consider numerous known and unknown combinatorial realizations of the sequence A079487 and basic facts about it.
We prove matrix and scalar differential Harnack inequalities for linear parabolic equations on Riemannian and K\"ahler manifolds.
In this paper, we study bounded and closed range multiplication and composition operators between two different Orlicz spaces.
In this paper, we introduce and share the new concept of $\mathcal{MT}(\lambda )$-functions and its some characterizations.
We describe an abstract 2-categorical setting to study various notions of polynomial and analytic functors and monads.
We derive gradient and energy estimates for critical points of the full supersymmetric sigma model and discuss several applications.
Results on open charm and beauty production and on the search for top production in high-energy electron-proton collisions at HERA are reviewed. This includes a discussion of relevant theoretical aspects, a summary of the available measurements and measurement techniques, and their impact on improved understanding of QCD and its parameters, such as parton density functions and charm- and beauty-quark masses. The impact of these results on measurements at the LHC and elsewhere is also addressed.
This is about the paper by Thawhat Changphas and Nawamin Phaipong in Quasigroups and Related Systems 22 (2014), 193--200.
This paper describes several applications in astronomy and cosmology that are addressed using probabilistic modelling and statistical inference.
This report summarizes new publications on the results of research in atomic and molecular collision processes and spectral line broadening.
We discuss the relationship between kernels, images and cokernels of morphisms between perverse sheaves and induced maps on stalk cohomology.
In recent decades, power line communication has attracted considerable attention from the research community and industry, as well as from regulatory and standardization bodies. In this article we provide an overview of both narrowband and broadband systems, covering potential applications, regulatory and standardization efforts and recent research advancements in channel characterization, physical layer performance, medium access and higher layer specifications and evaluations. We also identify areas of current and further study that will enable the continued success of power line communication technology.
Serverless computing has emerged as a new compelling paradigm for the deployment of applications and services. It represents an evolution of cloud programming models, abstractions, and platforms, and is a testament to the maturity and wide adoption of cloud technologies. In this chapter, we survey existing serverless platforms from industry, academia, and open source projects, identify key characteristics and use cases, and describe technical challenges and open problems.
We compute the Mather minimal log discrepancy via jet schemes and arc spaces for toric varieties and very general hypersurfaces.
By this short preface we show the main idea and we will bring some definitions and concepts in each section.
Some combinatorial aspects of relations between multiple zeta values of depths 2 and 3 and period polynomials are discussed.
Electronic and magnetic properties of DNA structures doped by simple and transition d- and f-metal ions (Gd, La, Cu, Zn, Au) are reviewed. Both one- and two dimensional systems are considered. A particular attention is paid to gadolinium and copper doped DNA systems, their unusual magnetism being treated. The problem of classical and quantum transport (including transfer of genetic information during replication and transcription) and electron localization in biological systems is discussed.
Third order amplitude equations on hexagonal lattices can be used for predicting the existence and stability of stripes, up- and down-hexagons in pattern forming systems. These amplitude equations predict the nonexistence of bistable ranges between up- and down-hexagons and tristable ranges between stripes, up- and down-hexagons. In the present work we use fifth order amplitude equations for finding such bistable and tristable ranges for a generalized Swift-Hohenberg equation and discuss stationary front connections between up- and down-hexagons.
We survey recent developments and open problems about extremal effective divisors and higher codimension cycles in moduli spaces of curves.
We give an accessible introduction to global singularity theory including the basic structure theorems by Damon, and Pragacz and Weber.
We define and study Harder-Narasimhan filtrations on Breuil-Kisin-Fargues modules and related objects relevant to p-adic Hodge theory.
We give a blow-up analysis and a compactness result for an equation with Holderian condition and boundary singularity.
We consider the conjecture of Brutman and Pasow on a totality divided differences and prove the conjecture for continuous functions.
We present CHALET, a 3D house simulator with support for navigation and manipulation. CHALET includes 58 rooms and 10 house configuration, and allows to easily create new house and room layouts. CHALET supports a range of common household activities, including moving objects, toggling appliances, and placing objects inside closeable containers. The environment and actions available are designed to create a challenging domain to train and evaluate autonomous agents, including for tasks that combine language, vision, and planning in a dynamic environment.
This is a survey on weight enumerators, zeta functions and Riemann hypothesis for linear and algebraic-geometry codes.
Powerbox is a pure-Python package for creating and measuring structured fields with homogeneous and isotropic power spectra.
The chapter reviews the syntax to store machine-readable annotations and describes the mapping between rule-based modelling entities (e.g., agents and rules) and these annotations. In particular, we review an annotation framework and the associated guidelines for annotating rule-based models of molecular interactions, encoded in the commonly used Kappa and BioNetGen languages, and present prototypes that can be used to extract and query the annotations. An ontology is used to annotate models and facilitate their description.
In this paper, we define Tribonacci and Tribonacci-Lucas matrix sequences with negative indices and investigate their properties.
We give an introduction to unstable motivic homotopy theory of Morel and Voevodsky, and survey some results.
We introduce new invariants in equivariant birational geometry and study their relation to modular symbols and cohomology of arithmetic groups.
We analyze the various morphing structures obtained by actuating Janus filaments comprising driven and passive sectors and textiles incorporating driven and passive filaments. Transitions between alternative shapes and coexistence of absolutely stable and metastable states within a certain range of relative extension upon actuation are detected both in Janus rings and textiles. Both single filaments and textiles can be reverse designed to bend into desired shapes by controlling both the size and orientation of driven sectors.
We revisit Wschebor's theorems on small increments for processes with scaling and stationary properties and deduce large deviation principles.
We survey Lagrangian fibrations of holomorphic symplectic varieties, both compact and non-compact, whose fibres are Jacobians and Prym varieties.
We give a survey on recent development of the Novikov conjecture and its applications to topological rigidity and non-rigidity. .
We give a survey on higher invariants in noncommutative geometry and their applications to differential geometry and topology.
We prove irreducibility and mutual inequivalence for certain unitary representations of R. Thompson's groups F and T.
We construct an ungraded CL-shellable poset and a graded CL-shellable poset and show that neither is EL-shellable.
We derive new matrix representation for higher-order changhee numbers and polynomials. This helps us to obtain simple and short proofs of many previous results on higher-order changhee numbers and polynomials. Moreover, we obtain recurrence relations, explicit formulas and some new results for these numbers and polynomials. Furthermore, we investigate the relations between these numbers and polynomials and Stirling numbers, Norlund and Bernoulli numbers of higher-order. Some numerical results using Mathcad program are introduced.
The mode III fracture problem for a hexagonal lattice is discussed and compared with square and triangular lattices.
Information on different fields which are collected by users requires appropriate management and organization to be structured in a standard way and retrieved fast and more easily. Document classification is a conventional method to separate text based on their subjects among scientific text, web pages and digital library. Different methods and techniques are proposed for document classifications that have advantages and deficiencies. In this paper, several unsupervised and supervised document classification methods are studied and compared.
We calculate the moments of the Meyer-K\"onig and Zeller operators in terms of elementary functions and polylogarithms.
Survey article on representation stability and examples in algebraic geometry and topology, written for the Notices of the AMS.
We compare existence and equivariance phenomena for weak moment maps and homotopy moment maps in multisymplectic geometry.
This study proposes different approaches for static and dynamic gesture analysis and imitation with the social robot Nao
Both the ellipse and the hyperbola are geometric places that can be defined by establishing a relationship between points $P$ of the plane and two fixed points $A$ and $B$ (which are its foci $F'=A$ and $F=B$). Given two points $A$ and $B$ of the plan (which we no longer call the foci $F$ and $F'$), we are going to present three geometric places associated with $A$ and $B$ other than the ellipse and the hyperbola.
Existence and uniqueness for rough flows, transport and continuity equations driven by general geometric rough paths are established.
This paper aims to enhance the security and resilience of Critical Information Infrastructures (CIIs) by providing a dynamic collaborative, warning and response system (CyberSANE system) supporting and guiding security officers and operators (e.g. Incident Response professionals) to recognize, identify, dynamically analyse, forecast, treat and respond to their threats and risks and handle their daily cyber incidents. The proposed solution provides a first of a kind approach for handling cyber security incidents in the digital environments with highly interconnected, complex and diverse nature.
A key focus of the SODALITE project is to assure the quality and performance of the deployments of applications over heterogeneous Cloud and HPC environments. It offers a set of tools to detect and correct errors, smells, and bugs in the deployment models and their provisioning workflows, and a framework to monitor and refactor deployment model instances at runtime. This paper presents objectives, designs, early results of the quality assurance framework and the refactoring framework.
Malware proliferation and sophistication have drastically increased and evolved continuously. Recent indiscriminate ransomware victimizations have imposed critical needs of effective detection techniques to prevent damages. Therefore, ransomware has drawn attention among cyberspace researchers. This paper contributes a comprehensive overview of ransomware attacks and summarizes existing detection and prevention techniques in both Windows and Android platforms. Moreover, it highlights the strengths and shortcomings of those techniques and provides a comparison between them. Furthermore, it gives recommendations to users and system administrators.
We prove that Khovanov homology with Z/2-coefficients detects the link L7n1, and the union of a trefoil and its meridian.
We use subsequence and moving average ergodic theorems applied to Boole's transformation and its variants and their invariant measures on the real line to give new characterisations of the Lindelh{\"o}f Hypothesis and the Riemann hypothesis. These ideas are then used to study the value distribution of Dirichlet L series, and the zeta functions of Dedekind, Hurwitz and Riemann and their derivatives. This builds on earlier work of R. L. using Birkhoff's ergodic theorem and probability theory.
Smart devices are becoming inseparable from daily lives and are improving fast for providing intelligent services and remote monitoring and control. In order to provide personalized and customized services more personal data collection is required. Consequently, intelligent services are becoming intensely personal and they raise concerns regarding data privacy and security. In this paper data privacy requirements in a smart home environment equipped with "Internet of Things" are described and privacy challenges for data and models are addressed.
I provide an expository account of the interplay between Minkowski and Euclidean signature gamma matrices, Majorana fermions, and discrete symmetries.
We characterize skew polynomial rings and skew power series rings that are reduced and right or left Archimedean.
We study solvable lattice models associated to canonical Grothendieck polynomials and their duals. We derive inversion relations and Cauchy identities.
Several exact expansions as well as lower and upperbounds of the Kermack and McKendrick SIR equations are presented.
Motivic Chern and Hirzebruch classes are polynomials with K-theory and homology classes as coefficients, which specialize to Chern-Schwartz-MacPherson classes, K-theory classes, and Cappell-Shaneson L-classes. We provide formulas to compute the motivic Chern and Hirzebruch classes of Grassmannian and vexillary degeneracy loci. We apply our results to obtain the Hirzebruch $\chi_y$-genus of classical and one-pointed Brill-Noether varieties, and therefore their topological Euler characteristic, holomorphic Euler characteristic, and signature.
We provide an overview of the relationship between financial networks and systemic risk. We present a taxonomy of different types of systemic risk, differentiating between direct externalities between financial organizations (e.g., defaults, correlated portfolios and firesales), and perceptions and feedback effects (e.g., bank runs, credit freezes). We also discuss optimal regulation and bailouts, measurements of systemic risk and financial centrality, choices by banks' regarding their portfolios and partnerships, and the changing nature of financial networks.
We establish the most general Szasz type estimates for homogeneous Besov and Lizorkin-Triebel spaces, and their realizations.
Ensuring a faithful interaction with data and its representation for humanities can and should depend on expert-constructed ground truths.
We prove that the Khovanov spectra associated to links and tangles are functorial up to homotopy and sign.
A partly autobiographical survey of the development of enumerative and algebraic combinatorics in the 1960's and 1970's.
We analyze weak convergence on $\CAT(0)$ spaces and the existence and properties of corresponding weak topologies.
A view on the history and current status of dark matter and dark energy, at a fairly introductory level.
We describe automorphisms and derivations of several important associative and Lie algebras of infinite matrices over a field.
We extend expansion formulas of Liu given in 2013 to the context of multiple series over root systems. Liu and others have shown the usefulness of these formulas in Special Functions and number-theoretic contexts. We extend Wang and Ma's generalizations of Liu's work which they obtained using $q$-Lagrange inversion. We use the $A_n$ and $C_n$ Bailey transformation and other summation theorems due to Gustafson, Milne, Milne and Lilly, and others, from the theory of $A_n$, $C_n$ and $D_n$ basic hypergeometric series.
We introduce the class of unbounded $M$-weakly operators and the class of unbounded $L$-weakly compact operators. We investigate some properties for these new classification of operators and we study relation between them and $M$-weakly compact and $L$-weakly compact operators. We also present an operator characterization of Banach lattices with order continuous norm. \keywords{unbounded $M$-weakly compact \and unbounded $L$-weakly compact \and unbounded norm convergence \and $M$-weakly compact \and $L$-weakly compact
In this brief article I review the history of astronomical photometry, touching on observations made by the ancient Chinese, Hipparchus and Ptolemy, the development of the concept (and definition) of magnitude, the endeavors of Argelander and Zoellner, work at Harvard at the end of the 19th century, and the development of photography, photomultipliers, and CCD's and their application to astronomy.
Early results are reported from the SAURON survey of the kinematics and stellar populations of nearby cluster and field E, S0, and Sa galaxies. We present maps of the Hbeta and [OIII] emission-line distribution and kinematics for NGC 5813 and NGC 7742.
Winds and outflows in starburst galaxies and AGN provide important information on the physics of the "central engine", the presence and evolution of (nuclear) starbursts, and the metal enrichment of the nuclear environment and the intergalactic medium. Here, we concentrate on two examples, X-ray observations of the (U)LIRG NGC6240 and the BAL quasar APM08279+5255.
We provide new nucleosynthesis yields depending on metallicity and energy (i.e., (normal supernovae and hypernovae), and show the evolution of heavy element abundances from C to Zn in the solar neighborhood. We then show the chemodynamical simulation of the Milky Way Galaxy and discuss the G-dwarf problem. We finally show the cosmological simulation and discuss the galaxy formation and chemical enrichment.
The determinations of element abundances in red-giant stars and in particular in AGB stars are reviewed and the resulting abundances are compared with those obtained for planetary nebulae in the Galaxy and in nearby galaxies. The problems, possibilities and implications of such comparisons when estimating yields from low-mass and intermediate-mass stars are illustrated and commented on.
Natural resource use and waste production, disposal, and reuse in human economies are treated in their economic, technological and thermodynamic aspects. The physical nature of economic production, consumption, saving, and waste is compared and contrasted with non-human ecologies in terms of entropy production and evolutionary complexity.
Numerically minimizing a continuous free-energy functional which yields several modulated phases, we obtain the order-parameter profiles and interfacial free energies of symmetric and non-symmetric tilt boundaries within the lamellar phase, and of interfaces between coexisting lamellar, hexagonal, and disordered phases. Our findings agree well with chevron, omega, and T-junction tilt-boundary morphologies observed in diblock copolymers and magnetic garnet films.
We investigate the one-dimensional polaron problem and calculate the ground state energy and the effective mass. We use a real-time renormalization group method and compare our results with first and second order perturbation theory, with Feynman's variational principle and with the method of Lee, Low and Pines.
Using the mean field theory, a comparative study of the wetting and layering transitions of a spin-1/2 Ising model with perfect and corrugated surfaces, is established. The phase diagrams are investigated and compared in the presence of both a longitudinal and surface fields. The effect of increasing the temperature and the transverse field on the wetting and layering transitions is outlined.
We present an extension of equilibrium wetting to nonequilibrium situations particularly suited to systems with anisotropic interactions. Both critical and complete wetting transitions were found and characterized. We have identified a region in the space of parameters (temperature and chemical potential) where the wet and non-wet phases coexist. Emphasis is made on the analogies and differences between equilibrium and nonequilibrium wetting.
An overview of one- and two-dimensional quantum spin systems based on transition-metal oxides and halides of current interest is given, such as spin-Peierls, spin-dimer, geometrically frustrated and ladder systems. The most significant and outstanding contributions of magnetic light scattering to the understanding of these materials are discussed and compared to results of other spectroscopies and thermodynamic measurements.
This is a review article of our work on hysteresis, avalanches, and criticality. We provide an extensive introduction to scaling and renormalization--group ideas, and discuss analytical and numerical results for size distributions, correlation functions, magnetization, avalanche durations and average avalanche shapes, and power spectra. We focus here on applications to magnetic Barkhausen noise.
Treebank formats and associated software tools are proliferating rapidly, with little consideration for interoperability. We survey a wide variety of treebank structures and operations, and show how they can be mapped onto the annotation graph model, and leading to an integrated framework encompassing tree and non-tree annotations alike. This development opens up new possibilities for managing and exploiting multilayer annotations.
We study theoretical and computational aspects of the least squares fit (LSF) of circles and circular arcs. First we discuss the existence and uniqueness of LSF and various parametrization schemes. Then we evaluate several popular circle fitting algorithms and propose a new one that surpasses the existing methods in reliability. We also discuss and compare direct (algebraic) circle fits.
We introduce a new method, combination of random testing and abstract interpretation, for the analysis of programs featuring both probabilistic and non-probabilistic nondeterminism. After introducing "ordinary" testing, we show how to combine testing and abstract interpretation and give formulas linking the precision of the results to the number of iterations. We then discuss complexity and optimization issues and end with some experimental results.
Recently Nathan Rosen and the present author obtained the energy and momentum densities of cylindrical gravitational waves in Einstein's prescription and found them to be finite and reasonable. In the present paper we calculate the same in prescriptions of Tolman as well as Landau and Lifshitz and discuss the results.
The purpose of this work is to extend the formalism of stochastic calculus to the case of spaces with local anisotropy (modeled as vector bundles with compatible nonlinear and distinguished connections and metric structures and containing as particular cases different variants of Kaluza--Klein and generalized Lagrange and Finsler spaces). We shall examine nondegenerate diffusions on the mentioned spaces and theirs horizontal lifts.
Hard diffraction in events with dijets and rapidity gaps has been studied by D\O and CDF for three processes: hard color singlet exchange, hard single diffraction, and hard double pomeron exchange, using Tevatron $\bar pp$ data at $\sqrt{s}$ = 630 GeV and 1.8 TeV. Measurements of rates, $\eta, E_T$ and $\sqrt{s}$ dependencies are presented and comparisons made with predictions of several models.
Measurements of inclusive jet and dijet cross sections in photoproduction and deep inelastic scattering are presented. These measurements provide new tests of QCD, constrain the parton densities of the proton and the photon, and allow the search for new physics. Measurements of jet shapes are reported and used to test the differences between quark and gluon jets.
We use new scaling variables $x_w$ and $\xi_w$, and add low $Q^2$ modifications to GRV94 and GRV98 leading order parton distribution functions such that they can be used to model electron, muon and neutrino inelastic scattering cross sections (and also photoproduction) at both very low and high energie.
We use new scaling variables x_w and xi_w, and add low Q2 modifications to GRV94 and GRV98 leading order parton distribution functions such that they can be used to model electron, muon and neutrino inelastic scattering cross sections (and also photoproduction) at both very low and high energies
We suggest a method of constructing gauge invariant quark and gluon distributions that describe an abstract QCD observable and apply this method to analyze angular momentum of a hadron. In addition to the known quark and gluon polarized structure functions, we obtain gauge invariant distributions for quark and gluon orbital angular momenta, and consider some basic properties of these distributions and their moments.
These lectures describe some of the latest data on particle production in high-energy collisions and compare them with theoretical calculations and models based on QCD. The main topics covered are: fragmentation functions and factorization, small-x fragmentation, hadronization models, differences between quark and gluon fragmentation, current and target fragmentation in deep inelastic scattering, and heavy quark fragmentation.
We give a short review of QCD sum rule results for B and D mesons and Lambda_Q and Sigma_Q baryons. We focus mainly on recent developments concerning semileptonic B->pion and D->pion transitions, pion couplings to heavy hadrons, decay constants and estimates of the b quark mass from a baryonic sum rule, and the extraction of the pion distribution amplitude from CLEO data.
This summary of the working group 2 of DIS 2000 encompasses experimental and theoretical results of jet physics, open and bound state heavy flavour production, prompt photon production, next-to-leading order QCD calculations and beyond, instantons, fragmentation, event shapes, and power corrections, primarily from deep-inelastic scattering and photoproduction at HERA, but also from the LEP and Tevatron colliders.
Systematic and careful studies are made on the properties of the IJ=00 $\pi\pi$ and $K\bar K$ coupled-channel system, using newly derived dispersion relations between the phase shifts and poles and cuts. The effects of nearby branch point singularities to the determination of the $f_0(980)$ resonance are estimated and and discussed.
The theoretical description of heavy quarkonium production at high-energy p-pbar and e-p colliders is reviewed. Predictions based on non-relativistic QCD factorisation are confronted with recent charmonium and bottomonium data from the Tevatron and HERA. Potential shortcomings of the present theoretical analyses are discussed, and the prospects for quarkonium physics at the upgraded Tevatron and HERA colliders and at the LHC are summarised.
The existence of non-q\bar{q} hadrons such as glueballs and hybrids is one of the most important qualitative questions in QCD. The COMPASS experiment offers the possibility to unambiguously identify such states and map out the glueball and hybrid spectrum. In this review I discuss the expected properties of glueballs and hybrids and how they might be produced and studied by the COMPASS collaboration.
We discuss recent developments in neutrino physics and focus, in particular, on neutrino oscillations and matter effects of three light active neutrinos. Moreover, we discuss the difference between Dirac and Majorana neutrinos, neutrinoless $\beta\beta$-decay, absolute neutrino masses and electromagnetic moments. Basic mechanisms and a few models for neutrino masses and mixing are also presented.
Properties and temperature behavior of pi and sigma bound states are studied in the framework of the nonlocal model with a separable interaction kernel based on the quark Dyson-Schwinger and the meson Bethe-Salpeter equations. M_pi(T), f_pi(T), M_sigma(T) and Gamma_{sigma -> pi pi}(T) are considered above and below the deconfinement and chiral restoration transitions.
We discuss questions related to renormalization group and to nonperturbative aspects of non-Abelian gauge theories with N=2 and/or N=1 supersymmetry. Results on perturbative and nonperturbative $\beta$ functions of these theories are reviewed, and new mechanisms of confinement and dynamical symmetry breaking recently found in a class of $SU(n_c)$, $USp(2n_c)$ and $SO(n_c)$ theories are discussed.
We study closed N=2 strings on orbifolds of the form T^4/Z_2 and C^2/Z_2. We compute the torus partition function and prove its modular invariance. We analyse the BRST cohomology of the theory, construct the vertex operators, and compute three and four point amplitudes of twisted and untwisted states. We introduce a background of D-branes, and compute twist states correlators.
With the help of the multigraded Nijenhuis-- Richardson bracket and the multigraded Gerstenhaber bracket from [7] for every $n\ge 2$ we define $n$-ary associative algebras and their modules and also $n$-ary Lie algebras and their modules, and we give the relevant formulas for Hochschild and Chevalley cohomogy.
We study a mathematical model of a blood circulation network which is a generalization of the coronary model proposed by Smith, Pullan and Hunter. We prove the existence and uniqueness of the solution to the initial-boundary value problem and discuss the continuity of dependence of the solution and its derivatives on initial, boundary and forcing functions and their derivatives.
This paper proposes a formal model for a network of robotic agents that move and communicate. Building on concepts from distributed computation, robotics and control theory, we define notions of robotic network, control and communication law, coordination task, and time and communication complexity. We then analyze a number of basic motion coordination algorithms such as pursuit, rendezvous and deployment.
We give an axiomatic formulation of quantum structures like semilogics and quasilogics which generalize the boolean semirings of events and fuzzy logics. The notions of distributions, states, representations observables and semiobservables are introduced and their Hilbert space realizations are found. The closed and open structures in semilogics are introduced and the regular distributions on the semilogics are studied.
We estimate density and regression functions for weak dependant datas. Using an exponential inequality obtained by Dedecker and Prieur and in a previous article of the author, we control the deviation between the estimator and the function itself. These results are applied to a large class of dynamical systems and lead to estimations of invariant densities and on the mapping itself.
Let $f$ and $F$ be two polynomials satisfying $F(x)=u(x)f(x)+v(x)f'(x)$. We characterize the relation between the location and multiplicity of the real zeros of $f$ and $F$, which generalizes and unifies many known results, including the results of Brenti and Br\"and\'en about the $q$-Eulerian polynomials.
We give an informal introduction to formal and rigid geometry over complete discrete valuation rings, and we discuss some applications in algebraic and arithmetic geometry and singularity theory, with special emphasis on recent applications to the Milnor fibration and the motivic zeta function by J. Sebag and the author.
We formulate a method of computing invariant 1-forms and structure equations of symmetry pseudo-groups of differential equations based on Cartan's method of equivalence and the moving coframe method introduced by Fels and Olver. Our apparoach does not require a preliminary computation of infinitesimal defining systems, their analysis and integration, and uses differentiation and linear algebra operations only. Examples of its applications are given.
Based on the discrete fractional random transform (DFRNT), we present the discrete fractional random cosine and sine transforms (DFRNCT and DFRNST). We demonstrate that the DFRNCT and DFRNST can be regarded as special kinds of DFRNT and thus their mathematical properties are inherited from the DFRNT. Numeral results of DFRNCT and DFRNST for one and two dimensional functions have been given.
We study charm production through dimuon and single muon measurements at forward and backward rapidities in p+p and d+Au collisions with the PHENIX muon detectors. We also compare open charm to $J/\psi$ yields in the forward and backward rapidities in d+Au collisions and study the origin of the large forward and backward asymmetry in open charm production observed by the PHENIX experiment.
We illustrate the progress of covariant QCD phenomenology for the description of meson coupling constants and form factors. As examples, we discuss the $\rho\pi\pi$ and $\gamma \pi\rho$ interactions, the $\rho$ contribution to the pion charge radius, and the $\rho NN$ and $\omega NN$ vector and tensor coupling constants and form factors.
Electric power is a vital ingredient of modern society. This article is written to provide an insight into the physics and engineering that go into the transmission of electric power and its potential modernization. Topics covered will be Transmission and Distribution, Comparing Overhead and Underground Delivery, Pros and Cons of Underground Delivery, Superconducting Transmission, Cryorisistive Delivery, Hyperconductivity, and Metal-Plated Graphite Fibers.
This article is a short review on the concept of information. We show the strong relation between Information Theory and Physics, and the differences between classical and quantum information, with emphasis in their manipulation through logical gates. This paper is intended to be read by non-specialists and undergraduate students of Computer Science, Mathematics and Physics, with knowledge in Linear Algebra and Quantum Mechanics.
A model on the effects of leader, media, viruses, and worms and other agents on the opinion of individuals is developed and utilized to simulate the formation of consensus in society and price in market via excess between supply and demand. Effects of some time varying drives, (harmonic and hyperbolic) are also investigated.   Key words: Opinion; Leader; Media; Market; Buyers; Sellers; Excess
We provide several schemes to construct the continuous-variable SWAP gate and present a Hermitian generalized many-body continuous controlled^n-NOT gate. We introduce and study the hybrid controlled-NOT gate and controlled-SWAP gate, and physical realizations of them are discussed in trapped-ion systems. These continuous-variable and hybrid quantum gates may be used in the corresponding continuous-variable and hybrid quantum computations.
A survey on the generalizations of Heisenberg uncertainty relation and a general scheme for their entangled extensions to several states and observables is presented. The scheme is illustrated on the examples of one and two states and canonical quantum observables, and spin and quasi-spin components. Several new uncertainty relations are displayed.   PACS 0365H, 4250D, 0220.
We propose construction of a unique and definite metric ($\eta_+$), time-reversal operator (T) and an inner product such that the pseudo-Hermitian matrix Hamiltonians are C, PT, and CPT invariant and PT(CPT)-norm is indefinite (definite). Here, P and C denote the generalized symmetries : parity and charge-conjugation respectively. The limitations of the other current approaches have been brought out.
A two-field model provides an unifying framework for elasticity, lattice dynamics and electromechanical coupling in graphene and carbon nanotubes, describes optical phonons, nontrivial acoustic branches, strain-induced gap opening, gap-induced phonon softening, doping-induced deformations, and even the hexagonal graphenic Brillouin zone, and thus explains and extends a previously disparate accumulation of analytical and computational results.
In this paper we have shall generalize Shearer's entropy inequality and its recent extensions by Madiman and Tetali, and shall apply projection inequalities to deduce extensions of some of the inequalities concerning sums of sets of integers proved recently by Gyarmati, Matolcsi and Ruzsa. We shall also discuss projection and entropy inequalities and their connections.
We review some recent developments in charm meson physics. In particular, we discuss theoretical predictions and experimental measurements of charmed meson decays to leptonic, semileptonic, and hadronic final states and implications of such measurements to searches for new physics. We discuss D0-anti-D0-mixing and CP-violation in charm, and discuss future experimental prospects and theoretical challenges in this area.
The symmetric numerical semigroups S(F_a,F_b,F_c) and S(L_k,L_m,L_n) generated by three Fibonacci (F_a,F_b,F_c) and Lucas (L_k,L_m,L_n) numbers are considered. Based on divisibility properties of the Fibonacci and Lucas numbers we establish necessary and sufficient conditions for both semigroups to be symmetric and calculate their Hilbert generating series, Frobenius numbers and genera.
We present an unified construction for algebras and modules homologies and cohomologies, in the case of associative, commuttaive, Lie and Gerstenhaber algebras. We make a distinction between the linear part of the construction of algebras and cogebras, characterized by the symmetries of the defining relations and the structure itself which appears as a differential on these algebras and cogebras.
This paper presents concentration inequalities and laws of large numbers under weak assumptions of irrelevance, expressed through lower and upper expectations. The results are variants and extensions of De Cooman and Miranda's recent inequalities and laws of large numbers. The proofs indicate connections between concepts of irrelevance for lower/upper expectations and the standard theory of martingales.
During the last few years there has been a renaissance in charm and charmonium spectroscopy with higher precision measurements at the $\psi^{'}$ and $\psi(3770)$ coming from BESII and CLEOc and many new discoveries coming from B-factories. In this paper, I review some new results on "classical" charmonium and $e^+ e^- \to$ hadrons using B-factory Initial State Radiation and two photon events.
We reconsider the two different facets of $\pi$ and $K$ mesons as $q \bar q$ bound states and approximate Nambu-Goldstone bosons. We address several topics, including masses, mass splittings between $\pi$ and $\rho$ and between $K$ and $K^*$, meson wavefunctions, charge radii, and the $K-\pi$ wavefunction overlap.
Joyce has shown that the fundamental quandle of a classical knot can be derived from consideration of the fundamental group and the peripheral structure of the knot, and also that the group and much of the peripheral structure can be recovered from the quandle. We generalize these results to arbitrary dimensions, and also to virtual and welded knots and arcs.
We use information theory to study recovering sets $\R_L$ and strongly cancellative sets $\C_L$ on different lattices. These sets are special classes of recovering pairs and cancellative sets previously discussed in [1], [3] and [5]. We mainly focus on the lattices $B_n$ and $D_{l}^{k}$. Specifically, we find upper bounds and constructions for the sets $\R_{B_n}$, $\C_{B_n}$, and $\C_{D_{l}^{k}}$.
The WGLA of the AAS (http://www.aas.org/labastro/) promotes collaboration and exchange of knowledge between astronomy and planetary sciences and the laboratory sciences (physics, chemistry, and biology). Laboratory data needs of ongoing and next generation planetary science missions are carefully evaluated and recommended in this white paper submitted by the WGLA to Planetary Decadal Survey.
This is a limited review and update of the status of Heavy Flavor Physics. After we review the flavor problem we discuss a number of topics: recent puzzles in purely leptonic D and B decays and their possible resolutions, mixing in neutral B and D mesons, the determination of ;Vcb; and ;Vub; from semileptonic decays, and we conclude with radiative B decays.
It is shown that the $f$-divergence between two probability measures $P$ and $R$ equals the supremum of the same $f$-divergence computed over all finite measurable partitions of the original space, thus generalizing results previously proved by Gel'fand and Yaglom and by Peres for the Information Divergence and more recently by Dukkipati, Bhatnagar and Murty for the Tsallis' and Renyi's divergences.
Bioinformatics is a new discipline that addresses the need to manage and interpret the data that in the past decade was massively generated by genomic research. This discipline represents the convergence of genomics, biotechnology and information technology, and encompasses analysis and interpretation of data, modeling of biological phenomena, and development of algorithms and statistics. This article presents an introduction to bioinformatics
These notes cover (i) electroweak symmetry breaking in the Standard Model (SM) and the Higgs boson, (ii) alternatives to the SM Higgs boson including an introduction to composite Higgs models and Higgsless models that invoke extra dimensions, (iii) the theory and phenomenology of supersymmetry, and (iv) various further beyond topics, including Grand Unification, proton decay and neutrino masses, supergravity, superstrings and extra dimensions.
This article will explore the K- and L-theory of group rings and their applications to algebra, geometry and topology. The Farrell-Jones Conjecture characterizes K- and L-theory groups. It has many implications, including the Borel and Novikov Conjectures for topological rigidity. Its current status, and many of its consequences are surveyed.
MP is a package of ANSI Standard Fortran (ANS X3.9-1966) subroutines for performing multiple-precision floating-point arithmetic and evaluating elementary and special functions. The subroutines are machine independent and the precision is arbitrary, subject to storage limitations. The User's Guide describes the routines and their calling sequences, example and test programs, use of the Augment precompiler, and gives installation instructions for the package.
We describe some classes of PDE that display hidden symmetry, with reduced equations having additional symmetry operators compared to the initial equations. Relations between the concepts of hidden and conditional symmetry, and between hidden symmetry and equivalence of classes of equations, is discussed. In particular, we describe equations having hidden and conditional symmetry under rotations and boosts in the Lorentz and Euclid groups.
We have dramatically extended the zero field susceptibility series at both high and low temperature of the Ising model on the triangular and honeycomb lattices, and used these data and newly available further terms for the square lattice to calculate a number of terms in the scaling function expansion around both the ferromagnetic and, for the square and honeycomb lattices, the antiferromagnetic critical point.
We present a general theory of fractal transformations and show how it leads to a new type of method for filtering and transforming digital images. This work substantially generalizes earlier work on fractal tops. The approach involves fractal geometry, chaotic dynamics, and an interplay between discrete and continuous representations. The underlying mathematics is established and applications to digital imaging are described and exemplified.
We consider probabilistic automata on infinite words with acceptance defined by safety, reachability, B\"uchi, coB\"uchi, and limit-average conditions. We consider quantitative and qualitative decision problems. We present extensions and adaptations of proofs for probabilistic finite automata and present a complete characterization of the decidability and undecidability frontier of the quantitative and qualitative decision problems for probabilistic automata on infinite words.
We describe the structure of connected graphs with the minimum and maximum average distance, radius, diameter, betweenness centrality, efficiency and resistance distance, given their order and size. We find tight bounds on these graph qualities for any arbitrary number of nodes and edges and analytically derive the form and properties of such networks.
We consider various shuffling and unshuffling operations on languages and words, and examine their closure properties. Although the main goal is to provide some good and novel exercises and examples for undergraduate formal language theory classes, we also provide some new results and some open problems.
The Jacobi-Stirling numbers and the Legendre-Stirling numbers of the first and second kind were first introduced in [6], [7]. In this paper we note that Jacobi-Stirling numbers and Legendre-Stirling numbers are specializations of elementary and complete symmetric functions. We then study combinatorial interpretations of this specialization and obtain new combinatorial interpretations of the Jacobi-Stirling and Legendre-Stirling numbers.
A general review of the latest results about single and double vector boson production in the multipurpose experiments at LHC (ATLAS and CMS) and at Tevatron (CDF and D0) will be presented. The review will focus on boson production, while a more detailed report about W and Z properties can be found elsewhere. Only leptonic decays into electrons and muons will be considered.
Recent developments in the MARS15 code are described for the critical modules related to demands of hadron and lepton colliders and Megawatt proton and heavy-ion beam facilities. Details of advanced models for particle production and nuclide distributions in nuclear interactions at low and medium energies, energy loss, atomic displacements and gas production are presented along with benchmarking against data.
A comparison of PGI OpenACC, FORTRAN CUDA, and Nvidia CUDA pseudospectral methods on a single GPU and GCC FORTRAN on single and multiple CPU cores is reported. The GPU implementations use CuFFT and the CPU implementations use FFTW. Porting pre-existing FORTRAN codes to utilize a GPUs is efficient and easy to implement with OpenACC and CUDA FORTRAN. Example programs are provided.
By considering Eulerian numbers and ordered Stirling numbers of the second and third kinds over a multiset, we generalize identities of Eulerian numbers and Stirling numbers of the second and third kinds and provide $q$-analogs of these generalizations. Using these generalizations, we also compute Eulerian numbers and ordered Stirling numbers of the second kind over a multiset.
A review of neutrino astrophysics is presented, including solar and atmospheric neutrinos; neutrino mass and oscillations; the supernova mechanism, supernova neutrino production, and associated nucleosynthesis; cosmological neutrinos and Big Bang nucleosynthesis; neutrino cooling and associated limits on neutrino properties; and high-energy astrophysical neutrinos.
A complete and improved calculation of phase space factors (PSF) for $2\nu\beta\beta$ and $0\nu\beta\beta$ decay is presented. The calculation makes use of exact Dirac wave functions with finite nuclear size and electron screening and includes life-times, single and summed electron spectra, and angular electron correlations.
In this article, we present the best possible upper and lower bounds for the Neuman-S\'andor mean in terms of the geometric combinations of harmonic and quadratic means, geometric and quadratic means, harmonic and contra-harmonic means, and geometric and contra-harmonic means.
We discuss properties and evolution of quark-gluon plasma in the early Universe and compare to laboratory heavy ion experiments. We describe how matter and antimatter emerged from a primordial soup of quarks and gluons. We focus our discussion on similarities and differences between the early Universe and the laboratory experiments.
We express the link between conductivity and coefficients of Seebeck, Nernst-Ettingshausen, Peltier, and Thompson and Reghi-Leduc via the temperature derivative of the chemical potential of a system. These general expressions are applied to three-, two- and one-dimensional systems of charge carriers having a parabolic or Dirac spectrum. The method allows for predicting thermoelectric and thermomagnetic properties of novel materials and structures.
We apply eigenvalue interlacing techniques for obtaining lower and upper bounds for the sums of Laplacian eigenvalues of graphs, and characterize equality. This leads to generalizations of, and variations on theorems by Grone, and Grone and Merris. As a consequence we obtain inequalities involving bounds for some well-known parameters of a graph, such as edge-connectivity, and the isoperimetric number.
We give an introduction to the physics and mathematics involved in the recently observed relation between topological string theory and knot contact homology and then discuss this relation. The note is based on two lectures given at the Gokova Geometry and Topology Conference, 2013 and reports on joint work by Aganagic, Ng, Vafa, and the author.
Based on a variety of philosophical approaches and my own work for decades in pure and applied mathematics teaching and research, I explain my view upon the basic difficulties of acquiring the Mathematical Experience (in the sense of P.J. Davis and R. Hersh 1981) and submit a list of claims how these difficulties can and should be confronted.
We compute the unknotting number of two infinite families of pretzel knots, $P(3,1,\dots,1,b)$ (with $b$ positive and odd and an odd number of 1s) and $P(3,3,3c)$ (with $c$ positive and odd). To do this, we extend a technique of Owens using Donaldson's diagonalization theorem, and one of Traczyk using the Jones polynomial, building on work of Lickorish and Millett.
We illustrate benefits to the U.S. economy and technological infrastructure of U.S. participation in accelerators overseas. We discuss contributions to experimental hardware and analysis and to accelerator technology and components, and benefits stemming from the involvement of U.S. students and postdoctoral fellows in global scientific collaborations. Contributed to the proceedings of the Snowmass 2013 Community Summer Study.
We study the problem of disordered interacting bosons within grand-canonical thermodynamics and Bogoliubov theory. We compute the fractions of condensed and non-condensed particles and corrections to the compressibility and the speed of sound due to interaction and disorder. There are two small parameters, the disorder strength compared to the chemical potential and the dilute-gas parameter.
Ya.B. Zeldovich was a pre-eminent Soviet physicist whose seminal contributions spanned many fields ranging from physical chemistry to nuclear and particle physics, and finally astrophysics and cosmology. March 8, 2014 marks Zeldovich's birth centenary, and this article attempts to convey the zest with which Zeldovich did science, and the important role he played in fostering and mentoring a whole generation of talented Scientists.
Recently, Song and Qi extended the concept of P, P_0 and B matrices to P, P_0, B and B_0 tensors, obtained some properties about these tensors, and proposed many questions for further research. In this paper, we answer three questions mentioned as above and obtain further results about P, P_0, B and B_0 tensors.
The Letter from Rosenfeld (2014, Biological Conservation) in response to Jamieson and Allendorf (2012, Trends in Ecology and Evolution) and Frankham et al. (2014, Biological Conservation) and related papers is misleading in places and requires clarification and correction. We provide those here.
I review the basics of perturbative QCD, including infrared divergences and safety, collinear and $k_T$ factorization theorems, and various evolution equations and resummation techniques for single- and double-logarithmic corrections. I then elaborate its applications to studies of jet substructures and hadronic two-body heavy-quark decays.
We study the relative succinctness and expressiveness of modal logics, and prove that these relationships can be as complex as any countable partial order. For this, we use two uniform formalisms to define modal operators, and obtain results on succinctness and expressiveness in these two settings. Our proofs are based on formula size games introduced by Adler and Immerman and bisimulations.
I review recently completed (since Lattice 2013) and ongoing lattice calculations in charm and bottom flavor physics. A comparison of the precision of lattice and experiment is made using both current experimental results and projected experimental precision in 2020. The combination of experiment and theory reveals several tensions between nature and the Standard Model. These tensions are reviewed in light of recent lattice results.
Motivated by the refinements and reverses of arithmetic-geometric mean and arithmetic-harmonic mean inequalities for scalars and matrices, in this article, we generalize the scalar and matrix inequalities for the difference between arithmetic mean and harmonic mean. In addition, relevant inequalities for the Hilbert-Schmidt norm and determinant are established.
We study transport of algebraic structures and prove a theorem which subsumes results of Comfort and Ross on topological group structures on Stone-Cech compactifications, of Chevalley and of Gil de Lamadrid and Jans on topological group and ring structures on universal covering spaces, and of Gleason on topological group structures on universal locally connected refinements.
The experimental program of the Seventh International Workshop on Charm Physics (CHARM 2015) is summarized. Highlights of the workshop include results from heavy flavor production, quarkonium and exotic states, hadronic decays and Dalitz analyses, semileptonic and leptonic decays, rare and radiative decays, charm mixing, and CP and T violation.
We present fast and accurate ways to normalize two and three dimensional vectors and quaternions and compute their length. Our approach is an adaptation of ideas used in the linear algebra library LAPACK, and we believe that the computational geometry and computer aided design communities are not aware of the possibility of speeding up these fundamental operations in the robust way proposed here.
Multiconfiguration Dirac-Fock and Relativistic Configuration Interaction methods have been employed to predict the structure and the width of $K\alpha_{1,2}$ x-ray lines of Al and Si. The influences of electron correlation and inclusion of possible satellite contributions on spectra structure have been studied. The widths of $K$ and $L_{2,3}$ atomic levels of Al and Si have been also computed.
This talk reviews some of the theoretical progress and outstanding issues in QCD, flavour physics, Higgs and electroweak physics and the search for physics beyond the Standard Model at the Tevatron and the LHC, and previews some physics possibilities for future runs of the LHC and proposed future hadron colliders.
We prove the total positivity of the Narayana triangles of type $A$ and type $B$, and thus affirmatively confirm a conjecture of Chen, Liang and Wang and a conjecture of Pan and Zeng. We also prove the strict total positivity of the Narayana squares of type $A$ and type $B$.
In this paper, bicomplex Pell and bicomplex Pell-Lucas numbers are defined. Also, negabicomplex Pell and negabicomplex Pell-Lucas numbers are given. Some algebraic properties of bicomplex Pell and bicomplex Pell-Lucas numbers which are connected with bicomplex numbers and Pell and Pell-Lucas numbers are investigated. Furthermore, d'Ocagne's identity, Binet's formula, Cassini's identity and Catalan's identity for these numbers are given.
Using elementary methods,we obtain simple,explicit expressions and bounds of higher order derivatives of Hurwitz zeta function and consequently those of Dirichlet L-function and also,of Lerch's Zeta function at unity (and at Zero too)and also obtain their interrelations.We also state elementary complete forms of approximate functional equations of Hurwitz zeta function and Dirichlet L-function in the critical strip.
We consider the basic features of complex dynamic and control systems, including systems having hierarchical structure. Special attention is paid to the problems of design and synthesis of complex systems and control models, and to the development of simulation techniques and systems. A model of complex system is proposed and briefly analyzed.
Using geometrical approach exposed in arXiv:math/0304245 and arXiv:nlin/0511012, we explore the Camassa-Holm equation (both in its initial scalar form, and in the form of 2x2-system). We describe Hamiltonian and symplectic structures, recursion operators and infinite series of symmetries and conservation laws (local and nonlocal).
IDEAL (Influence Diagram Evaluation and Analysis in Lisp) is a software environment for creation and evaluation of belief networks and influence diagrams. IDEAL is primarily a research tool and provides an implementation of many of the latest developments in belief network and influence diagram evaluation in a unified framework. This paper describes IDEAL and some lessons learned during its development.
We present a review and discussions on characterizations and quantifications of macroscopic quantum states as well as their implementations and applications in optical systems. We compare and criticize different measures proposed to define and quantify macroscopic quantum superpositions and extend such comparisons to several types of optical quantum states actively considered for experimental implementations within recent research topics.
The Mantid framework is a software solution developed for the analysis and visualization of neutron scattering and muon spin measurements. The framework is jointly developed by software engineers and scientists at the ISIS Neutron and Muon Facility and the Oak Ridge National Laboratory. The objectives, functionality and novel design aspects of Mantid are described.
The Collider Detector at Fermilab, CDF, observed for the first time in hadron-hadron collisions photon-photon to e+e- and mu+mu-, photon-pomeron to J/psi and psi(2S), and pomeron-pomeron to photon+photon and to chi_c. Exclusive pi+pi- production by double pomeron exchange was also measured at p+pbar CM energies 900 GeV and 1960 GeV, showing f0 and f2 resonance structures.
We give a short survey of the rationality problem for quasi-monomial actions which includes Noether's problem and the rationality problem for algebraic tori, and report some results on rationality problem in three recent papers Hoshi, Kang and Kitayama [HKKi], Hoshi, Kang and Kunyavskii [HKKu] and Hoshi and Yamasaki [HY].
Frames and Bessel sequences in Fr\'echet spaces and their duals are defined and studied. Their relation with Schauder frames and representing systems is analyzed. The abstract results presented here, when applied to concrete spaces of analytic functions, give many examples and consequences about sampling sets and Dirichlet series expansions.
First-principles calculations combining density functional theory and many-body perturbation theory can provide microscopic insight into the dynamics of electrons and phonons in materials. We review this theoretical and computational framework, focusing on perturbative treatments of scattering, dynamics and transport of coupled electrons and phonons. We discuss application of these first-principles calculations to electronics, lighting, spectroscopy and renewable energy.
Nucleon isovector vector- and axialvector-current form factors, the renormalized isovector transversity and scalar charge, and the bare quark momentum and helicity moments of isovector structure functions are reported with improved statistics from two recent RBC+UKQCD 2+1-flavor dynamical domain-wall fermions ensembles: Iwasaki\(\times\)DSDR gauge \(32^3\times64\) at inverse lattice spacing of 1.38 GeV and pion mass of 249 and 172 MeV.
Modern societies can be understood as the intersection of four interdependent systems: (1) the natural environment of geography, climate and weather; (2) the built environment of cities, engineered systems, and physical infrastructure; (3) the social environment of human populations, communities and socio-economic activities; and (4) an information ecosystem that overlays the other three domains and provides the means for understanding, interacting with, and managing the relationships between the natural, built, and human environments.   As the nation and its communities become more connected, networked and technologically sophisticated, new challenges and opportunities arise that demand a rethinking of current approaches to public safety and emergency management. Addressing the current and future challenges requires an equally sophisticated program of research, technology development, and strategic planning. The design and integration of intelligent infrastructure-including embedded sensors, the Internet of Things (IoT), advanced wireless information technologies, real-time data capture and analysis, and machine-learning-based decision support-holds the potential to greatly enhance public safety, emergency management, disaster recovery, and overall community resilience, while addressing new and emerging threats to public safety and security. Ultimately, the objective of this program of research and development is to save lives, reduce risk and disaster impacts, permit efficient use of material and social resources, and protect quality of life and economic stability across entire regions.
In this paper we introduce a natural function class and prove the existence and uniqueness of both nonnegative renormalized solutions and entropy solutions for the fractional p-Laplacian parabolic problem with L^1 data. And moreover, we obtain the equivalence of renormalized solutions and entropy solutions and establish a comparison result.
Building off of the work of Kervaire and Milnor, and Hill, Hopkins, and Ravenel, Xu and Wang showed that the only odd dimensions n for which S^n has a unique differentiable structure are 1, 3, 5, and 61. We show that the only even dimensions below 140 for which S^n has a unique differentiable structure are 2, 6, 12, 56, and perhaps 4.
Ultracold Rydberg molecules have been extensively studied both theoretically and ex-perimentally. Here the authors review the recent realizations of various ultralong-range Rydberg molecules and macrodimers, and explore their potential for current and future applications in spectroscopy, few- and many-body interactions and quantum information processing.
In this paper, we introduce The 2-variable unified family of generalized Apostol-Euler, Bernoulli and Genocchi polynomials and derive some implicit summation formulae and general symmetry identities. The result extend some known summations and identities of generalized Bernoulli, Euler and Genocchi numbers and polynomials.
When can two regular word languages K and L be separated by a simple language? We investigate this question and consider separation by piecewise- and suffix-testable languages and variants thereof. We give characterizations of when two languages can be separated and present an overview of when these problems can be decided in polynomial time if K and L are given by nondeterministic automata.
In the paper, the authors concisely survey and review some functions involving the gamma function and its various ratios, simply state their logarithmically complete monotonicity and related results, and find necessary and sufficient conditions for a new function involving the ratio of two gamma functions and originating from the coding gain to be logarithmically completely monotonic.
Recently, simple non-singular stress fields of cracks of mode I and mode III have been published by Aifantis (2009,2012), Isaksson and H\"agglund (2013) and Isaksson et al. (2012). In this work we investigate the physical meaning and interpretation of those solutions and if they satisfy important physical conditions (equilibrium, boundary and compatibility conditions).
In this paper, we first generalize a value distribution result of Lahiri and Dewan [4] and as an application of this result we prove a normality criterion using partial sharing of small functions. Further, in sequel normality criteria of Hu and Meng [3] and Ding, Ding and Yuan [1] are improved and generalized when the domain $D:=\{z:;z;<R,0<R\leq\infty\}$.
We present a theory and calculations of the nuclear magnetic shielding with finite nuclear mass effects and determine magnetic moments of deuteron and triton using the known NMR spectra of HD and HT molecules. The results $\mu_d = 0.857\,438\,234\,6(53)\;\mu_N$ and $\mu_t = 2.978\,962\,471(10)\;\mu_N$ are more accurate and in a good agreement with the currently accepted values.
This paper considers environmental problems of natural and anthropogenic atmospheric aerosol pollution and its global and regional monitoring. Efficient aerosol investigations may be achieved by spectropolarimetric measurements. Specifically second and fourth Stokes parameters spectral dependencies carry information on averaged refraction and absorption indexes and on particles size distribution functions characteristics.
The concepts of fuzzy objects and their classes are described that make it possible to structurally represent knowledge about fuzzy and partially-defined objects and their classes. Operations over such objects and classes are also proposed that make it possible to obtain sets and new classes of fuzzy objects and also to model variations in object structures under the influence of external factors.
We investigate student understanding of energy and momentum concepts at the level of introductory physics by designing and administering a 25-item multiple choice test and conducting individual interviews. We find that most students have difficulty in qualitatively interpreting basic principles related to energy and momentum and in applying them in physical situations. The test development process and a summary of results are presented.
We consider and characterize classes of finite and countably categorical structures and their theories preserved under $E$-operators and $P$-operators. We describe $e$-spectra and families of finite cardinalities for structures belonging to closures with respect to $E$-operators and $P$-operators.
This document describes the core concepts of the CCNx architecture and presents a minimum network protocol based on two messages: Interests and Content Objects. It specifies the set of mandatory and optional fields within those messages and describes their behavior and interpretation. This architecture and protocol specification is independent of a specific wire encoding.
We give some examples of the existence of solutions of geometric PDEs (Yamabe equation, Prescribed Scalar Curvature Equation, Gaussian curvature). We also give some remarks on second order PDE and Green functions and on the maximum principles. And on Harnack type inequalities and Sobolev and interpolation inequality. And some remarks on the equations.
For each positive integer $n$, we construct a bijection between the odd partitions and the distinct partitions of $n$ which extends Bressoud's bijection between the odd-and-distinct partitions of $n$ and the splitting partitions of $n$.   We compare our bijection with the classical bijections of Glaisher and Sylvester, and also with a recent bijection due to Chen, Gao, Ji and Li.
This paper provides an overview of modern digital geometry and topology through mathematical principles, algorithms, and measurements. It also covers recent developments in the applications of digital geometry and topology including image processing, computer vision, and data science. Recent research strongly showed that digital geometry has made considerable contributions to modelings and algorithms in image segmentation, algorithmic analysis, and BigData analytics.
This article is devoted to the investigation of $B^*$-algebras, dual and annihilator ultranormed algebras. Their structure is studied in the paper. Extensions of algebras and fields are considered and using them core radicals and radicals are investigated. Moreover, for this purpose also $*$-algebras and finely regular algebras are studied. Relations with operator theory and realizations of these algebras by operator algebras are outlined.
Two subclasses of Motzkin paths, S-Motzkin and T-Motzkin paths, are introduced. We provide bijections between S-Motzkin paths and ternary trees, S-Motzkin paths and non-crossing trees, and T-Motzkin paths and ordered pairs of ternary trees. Symbolic equations for both paths, and thus generating functions for the paths, are provided. Using these, various parameters involving the two paths are analyzed.
The representation theorems of Gelfand and Kakutani for commutative C*-algebras and AM- and AL-spaces are the basis for the Koopman linearization of topological and measure-preserving dynamical systems. In this article we prove versions of these results for dynamics on topological and measurable Banach bundles and the corresponding weighted Koopman representations on Banach modules.
A theorem of Katanaga, Saeki, Teragaito, and Yamada shows that the Price twist generalizes the Gluck twist of a 4-manifold. We are able to give a new proof of this theorem using certain trisection diagrams and recent techniques of Gay and Meier, and Kim and Miller. In particular, this answers a question of Kim and Miller.
We study the so-called closed and splitting subsemimodules and submodules of a given semimodule or module, respectively. We describe lattices of subsemimodules and of closed subsemimodules and posets of splitting subsemimodules and submodules. In the case of modules a natural bijective correspondence between these posets and posets of projections is established.
In this report, we summarize the end-to-end signal-to-noise ratio and the rate of half-duplex, full-duplex, amplify-and-forward, and decode-and-forward relay-aided communications, and well as the signal-to-noise ratio and the rate of the emerging technology known as reconfigurable intelligent surfaces.
The heavy quarks $c$ and $b$ stabilize exotic meson $(qq\bar q \bar q)$ and baryon $(qqqq \bar q)$ states. We discuss work with M. Karliner on molecules containing $c \bar c$ and $b \bar b$; the first doubly charmed baryon; isospin splittings; $\Xi_{cc}^+ = ccd$ and $\Omega_{cc} = ccs$ masses; lifetimes; tetraquarks stable under strong and electromagnetic decay; excited $\Omega_{c}$ states; and P-wave excitation energies.
We prove representation formulas for the coisotropic Hofer-Zehnder capacities of bounded convex domains with special coisotropic submanifolds and the leaf relation (introduced by Lisi and Rieser recently), study their estimates and relations with the Hofer-Zehnder capacity, give some interesting corollaries, and also obtain corresponding versions of a Brunn-Minkowski type inequality by Artstein-Avidan and Ostrover and a theorem by Evgeni Neduv.
One well-known necessary and sufficient condition for equality in the Frobenius rank inequality due to Tian and Styan is that the matrix equation B = BCX + YAB be solvable for X and Y. We develop an algorithm to construct the matrices X and Y using a quotient space formulation of the Frobenius rank inequality, and provide several necessary and sufficient conditions for solvability.
The existence and location of the QCD critical point is an object of vivid experimental and theoretical studies. Rich and beautiful data recorded by experiments at SPS and RHIC allow for a systematic search for the critical point - the search for a non-monotonic dependence of various correlation and fluctuation observables on collision energy and size of colliding nuclei.
Cells respond to biophysical and biochemical signals. We developed a composite filament from collagen and silica particles modified to interact with collagen and/or present a laminin epitope (IKVAV) crucial for cell-matrix adhesion and signal transduction. This combines scaffolding and signaling and shows that local tuning of collagen organization enhances cell differentiation.
The paper discusses identification conditions, representations and relations of generalized least squares estimators of regression parameters in multivariate linear regression models such as seemingly unrelated and fixed effect panel models. Results are presented on identification for unrestricted dispersion structure and general heteroskedasticity and cross-equation dependence, considering explicit and implicit restrictions, singularity of the dispersion and multicollinearity in the design matrix.
Although the CML (Capital Market Line), the Intertemporal-CAPM, the CAPM/SML (Security Market Line) and the Intertemporal Arbitrage Pricing Theory (IAPT) are widely used in portfolio management, valuation and capital markets financing; these theories are inaccurate and can adversely affect risk management and portfolio management processes. This article introduces several empirically testable financial theories that provide insights, and can be calibrated to real data and used to solve problems, and contributes to the literature by: i) explaining the conditions under which ICAPM/CAPM, IAPT and CML may be accurate, and why such conditions are not feasible; and explaining why the existence of incomplete markets and dynamic un-aggregated markets render CML, IAPT and ICAPM inaccurate; ii) explaining why the Consumption-Savings-InvestmentProduction framework is insufficient for asset pricing and analysis of changes in risk and asset values; and introducing a unified approach to asset pricing that simultaneously considers six factors, and the conditions under which this approach will work; iii) explaining why leisure, taxes and housing are equally as important as consumption and investment in asset pricing; iv) introducing the Marginal Rate of Intertemporal Joint Substitution (MRIJS) among Consumption, Taxes, Investment, Leisure, Intangibles and Housing - this model incorporates Regret Theory and captures features of reality that dont fit well into standard asset pricing models, and this framework can support specific or very general finance theories and or very complicated models; v) showing why the Elasticity of Intertemporal Substitution (EIS) is inaccurate and is insufficient for asset pricing and analysis of investor preferences.
In this paper, we consider the degenerate multi-poly-Bernoulli numbers and polynomials which are defined by means of the multiple polylogarithms and degenerate versions of the multi-poly-Bernoulli numbers and polynomials. We investigate some properties for those numbers and polynomials. In addition, we give some identities and relations for the degenerate multi-poly-Bernoulli numbers and polynomials.
We consider NLS on $\T^2$ with multiplicative spatial white noise and nonlinearity between cubic and quartic. We prove global existence, uniqueness and convergence almost surely of solutions to a family of properly regularized and renormalized approximating equations. In particular we extend a previous result by A. Debussche and H. Weber available in the cubic and sub-cubic setting.
We present a brief survey of the spectral theory and dynamics of infinite volume asymptotically hyperbolic manifolds. Beginning with their geometry and examples, we proceed to their spectral and scattering theories, dynamics, and the physical description of their quantum and classical mechanics. We conclude with a discussion of recent results, ideas, and conjectures.
Coupled Maxwell and time-dependent orbital-free calculations are implemented and tested to describe the interaction of electromagnetic waves and matter. The currents and induced fields predicted by the orbital-free calculations are compared to time-dependent density functional calculations and very good agreement is found for various systems including jellium sheets, jellium spheres, atomistic sheets, and icosahedron clusters.
In this paper, we propose extensions for the classical Kummer test, which is a very far-reaching criterion that provides sufficient and necessary conditions for convergence and divergence of series of positive terms. Furthermore, we present and discuss some interesting consequences and examples such as extensions of the Olivier's theorem and Raabe, Bertrand and Gauss's test.
This contribution describes the concept, main structure and goals, and some highlighted outcomes, of the AstroCamp -- an international academic excellence program in the field of astronomy and physics created in 2012 and organized by Centro de Astrof\'{\i}sica da Universidade do Porto (CAUP) together with the Paredes de Coura municipality and several national and international partners.
We study links between first-order formulas and arbitrary properties for families of theories, classes of structures and their isomorphism types. Possibilities for ranks and degrees for formulas and theories with respect to given properties are described. Characteristics for generic sentences and generic theories with respect to properties are described and characterized.
A weighing matrix $W$ of order $n=\frac{p^{m+1}-1}{p-1}$ and weight $p^m$ is constructed and shown that the rows of $W$ and $-W$ form optimal constant weight ternary codes of length $n$, weight $p^m$ and minimum distance $p^{m-1}(\frac{p+3}{2})$ for each odd prime power $p$ and integer $m\ge 1$ and thus   $$A_3\left(\frac{p^{m+1}-1}{p-1},p^{m-1}\big(\frac{p+3}{2}\big),p^{m}\right)=2\big(\frac{p^{m+1}-1}{p-1}\big).$$
We generalize the recent Newtonian two-component charged fluid models for white dwarf stars of Krivoruchenko, Nadyozhin and Yudin and of Hund and Kiessling to the context of general relativity. We compare the equations and numerical solutions of these models. We extend to the general relativistic setting the non-neutrality results and bounds on the stellar charge obtained by Hund and Kiessling.
It is unavoidable to deal with the quark and gluon momentum and angular momentum contributions to the nucleon momentum and spin in the study of nucleon internal structure. However, we never have the quark and gluon momentum, orbital angular momentum and gluon spin operators which satisfy both the gauge invariance and the canonical momentum and angular momentum commutation relation. The conflicts between the gauge invariance and canonical quantization requirement of these operators are discussed. A new set of quark and gluon momentum, orbital angular momentum and spin operators, which satisfy both the gauge invariance and canonical momentum and angular momentum commutation relation, are proposed. The key point to achieve such a proper decomposition is to separate the gauge field into the pure gauge and the gauge covariant parts. The same conflicts also exist in QED and quantum mechanics and have been solved in the same manner. The impacts of this new decomposition to the nucleon internal structure are discussed.
Process algebra and temporal logic are two popular paradigms for the specification, verification and systematic development of reactive and concurrent systems. These two approaches take different standpoint for looking at specifications and verifications, and offer complementary advantages. In order to mix algebraic and logic styles of specification in a uniform framework, the notion of a logic labelled transition system (LLTS) has been presented and explored by Luttgen and Vogler. This paper intends to propose a LLTS-oriented process calculus which, in addition to usual process-algebraic operators, involves logic connectives (conjunction and disjunction) and standard temporal operators (always and unless). This calculus preserves usual properties of these logic operators, allows one to freely mix operational and logic operators, and supports compositional reasoning. Moreover, the links between this calculus and Action-based Computation Tree Logic (ACTL) including characteristic formulae of process terms, characteristic processes of ACTL formulae and Galois connection are explored.
We analyze the continuous time zero-sum and cooperative controller-stopper games of Karatzas and Sudderth [Annals of Probability, 2001], Karatzas and Zamfirescu [Annals of Probability, 2008] and Karatzas and Zamfirescu [Applied Mathematics and Optimization, 2005] when the volatility of the state process is controlled as in Bayraktar and Huang [SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 2013] but additionally when the state process has controlled jumps. We perform this analysis by first resolving the stochastic target problems (of Soner and Touzi [SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 2002; Journal of European Mathematical Society, 2002]) with a cooperative or a non-cooperative stopper and then embedding the original problem into the latter set-up. Unlike in Bayraktar and Huang [SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 2013] our analysis relies crucially on the Stochastic Perron method of Bayraktar and Sirbu [SIAM Journal on Control and Optimization, 2013] but not the dynamic programming principle, which is difficult to prove directly for games.
By applying the p-adic q-Volkenborn Integrals including the bosonic and the fermionic p-adic integrals on p-adic integers, we define generating functions, attached to the Dirichlet character, for the generalized Apostol-Bernoulli numbers and polynomials, the generalized Apostol-Euler numbers and polynomials, generalized Apostol-Daehee numbers and polynomials, and also generalized Apostol-Changhee numbers and polynomials. We investigate some properties of these numbers and polynomials with their generating functions. By using these generating functions and their functional equation, we give some identities and relations including the generalized Apostol-Daehee and Apostol-Changhee numbers and polynomials, the Stirling numbers, the Bernoulli numbers of the second kind, Frobenious-Euler polynomials, the generalized Bernoulli numbers and the generalized Euler numbers and the Frobenious-Euler polynomials. By using the bosonic and the fermionic p-adic integrals, we derive integral represantations for the generalized Apostol-type Daehee numbers and the generalized Apostol-type Changhee numbers.
Electromechanical coupling is ubiquitous in nature and underpins the functionality of materials and systems as diverse as ferroelectric and multiferroic materials, electrochemical devices, and biological systems, and strain-based scanning probe microscopy (s-SPM) techniques have emerged as a powerful tool in characterizing and manipulating electromechanical coupling at the nanoscale. Uncovering underlying mechanisms of electromechanical coupling in these diverse materials and systems, however, is a difficult outstanding problem, and questions and confusions arise from recent experiment observations of electromechanical coupling and its apparent polarity switching in some unexpected materials. We propose a series of s-SPM experiments to identify different microscopic mechanisms underpinning electromechanical coupling, and demonstrate their feasibility using three representative materials. By employing a combination of spectroscopic studies and different modes of s-SPM, we show that it is possible to distinguish electromechanical coupling arising from spontaneous polarization, induced dipole moment, and ionic Vegard strain, and this offer a clear guidance on using s-SPM to study a wide variety of functional materials and systems.
Summarization is one of the key features of human intelligence. It plays an important role in understanding and representation. With rapid and continual expansion of texts, pictures and videos in cyberspace, automatic summarization becomes more and more desirable. Text summarization has been studied for over half century, but it is still hard to automatically generate a satisfied summary. Traditional methods process texts empirically and neglect the fundamental characteristics and principles of language use and understanding. This paper summarizes previous text summarization approaches in a multi-dimensional classification space, introduces a multi-dimensional methodology for research and development, unveils the basic characteristics and principles of language use and understanding, investigates some fundamental mechanisms of summarization, studies the dimensions and forms of representations, and proposes a multi-dimensional evaluation mechanisms. Investigation extends to the incorporation of pictures into summary and to the summarization of videos, graphs and pictures, and then reaches a general summarization framework.
Of the factors that determines the quality of a software system is its design and architecture. Having a good and clear design and architecture allows the system to evolve (plan and add new features), be easier to comprehend, easier to develop, easier to maintain; and in conclusion increase the life time of the, and being more competitive in its market. In the following paper we study the architecture of two different systems: GIPSY and DMARF. This paper provides a general overview of these two systems. What are these two systems, purpose, architecture, and their design patterns? Classes with week architecture and design, and code smells were also identified and some refactorings were suggested and implemented. Several tools were used throughout the paper for several purpose. LOGICSCOPE, JDeodoant, McCabe were used to identify classes with weak designs and code smells. Other tools and plugins were also used to identify class designs and relationships between classes such as ObjectAid (Eclipse plugin).
Several statistical and machine learning methods are proposed to estimate the type and intensity of physical load and accumulated fatigue . They are based on the statistical analysis of accumulated and moving window data subsets with construction of a kurtosis-skewness diagram. This approach was applied to the data gathered by the wearable heart monitor for various types and levels of physical activities, and for people with various physical conditions. The different levels of physical activities, loads, and fitness can be distinguished from the kurtosis-skewness diagram, and their evolution can be monitored. Several metrics for estimation of the instant effect and accumulated effect (physical fatigue) of physical loads were proposed. The data and results presented allow to extend application of these methods for modeling and characterization of complex human activity patterns, for example, to estimate the actual and accumulated physical load and fatigue, model the potential dangerous development, and give cautions and advice in real time.
Smart video sensors for applications related to surveillance and security are IOT-based as they use Internet for various purposes. Such applications include crowd behaviour monitoring and advanced decision support systems operating and transmitting information over internet. The analysis of crowd and pedestrian behaviour is an important task for smart IoT cameras and in particular video processing. In order to provide related behavioural models, simulation and tracking approaches have been considered in the literature. In both cases ground truth is essential to train deep models and provide a meaningful quantitative evaluation. We propose a framework for crowd simulation and automatic data generation and annotation that supports multiple cameras and multiple targets. The proposed approach is based on synthetically generated human agents, augmented frames and compositing techniques combined with path finding and planning methods. A number of popular crowd and pedestrian data sets were used to validate the model, and scenarios related to annotation and simulation were considered.
There is a growing interest and literature on intrinsic motivations and open-ended learning in both cognitive robotics and machine learning on one side, and in psychology and neuroscience on the other. This paper aims to review some relevant contributions from the two literature threads and to draw links between them. To this purpose, the paper starts by defining intrinsic motivations and by presenting a computationally-driven theoretical taxonomy of their different types. Then it presents relevant contributions from the psychological and neuroscientific literature related to intrinsic motivations, interpreting them based on the grid, and elucidates the mechanisms and functions they play in animals and humans. Endowed with such concepts and their biological underpinnings, the paper next presents a selection of models from cognitive robotics and machine learning that computationally operationalise the concepts of intrinsic motivations and links them to biology concepts. The contribution finally presents some of the open challenges of the field from both the psychological/neuroscientific and computational perspectives.
The explosive increase in volume, velocity, variety, and veracity of data generated by distributed and heterogeneous nodes such as IoT and other devices, continuously challenge the state of art in big data processing platforms and mining techniques. Consequently, it reveals an urgent need to address the ever-growing gap between this expected exascale data generation and the extraction of insights from these data. To address this need, this paper proposes Stream to Cloud & Edge (S2CE), a first of its kind, optimized, multi-cloud and edge orchestrator, easily configurable, scalable, and extensible. S2CE will enable machine and deep learning over voluminous and heterogeneous data streams running on hybrid cloud and edge settings, while offering the necessary functionalities for practical and scalable processing: data fusion and preprocessing, sampling and synthetic stream generation, cloud and edge smart resource management, and distributed processing.
With the rapid advances in IoT, edge and cloud computing solutions, it is critical to educate and train students in computer science and engineering in various aspects of IoT-edge-cloud (IoT-E-C) system architecture implementations. We outline the design and development of an undergraduate laboratory course that sets the goal of implementing various interfaces and communication protocols to connect IoT, edge and cloud computing systems and evaluating their performance. The lab setup is modular and based on open source tools. In the IoT context, it consists of low-cost processing platforms with various sensors and actuators. In the edge and cloud computing context, we implement and deploy single board computers and Firebase cloud solutions, respectively. The modular lab setup allows students to engineer and integrate various communication protocol solutions, including MQTT, COAP and HTTP. In addition to the system implementation, students can evaluate and benchmark the performance of the entire system.
We present a photometric and kinematical analysis of two and poorly studied open clusters; Koposov 12 (FSR 802) and Koposov 43 (FSR 848) by using cross-matched data from PPMXL and Gaia DR2 catalog. We use astrometric parameters to identify 285 and 310 cluster members for Koposov 12 and Koposov 43, respectively. Using the extracted member candidates and isochrone fitting to near-infrared (J, H, Ks) and Gaia DR2 bands (G, GBP, GRP), and Color Magnitude Diagrams (CMDs), we have estimated ages: log (age/yr) = 9.00 +/- 0.20 and 9.50 +/- 0.20, and distances d = 1850 +/- 43 pc and 2500 +/- 50 pc for Koposov 12 and Koposov 43, respectively, assuming Solar metallicity (Z=0.019). The estimated masses of the cluster derived using initial mass function and synthetic CMD are 364 +/- 19 M_sun and 352 +/- 19 M_sun. We have also computed their velocity ellipsoid parameters based on (3x3) matrix elements (mu_ij).
Bioenergy with Carbon Capture and Sequestration (BECCS) is critical for stringent climate change mitigation, but is commercially and technologically immature and resource-intensive. In California, state and federal fuel and climate policies can drive first-markets for BECCS. We develop a spatially explicit optimization model to assess niche markets for renewable natural gas (RNG) production with carbon capture and sequestration (CCS) from waste biomass in California. Existing biomass residues produce biogas and RNG and enable low-cost CCS through the upgrading process and CO$_2$ truck transport. Under current state and federal policy incentives, we could capture and sequester 2.9 million MT CO$_2$/year (0.7% of California's 2018 CO$_2$ emissions) and produce 93 PJ RNG/year (4% of California's 2018 natural gas demand) with a profit maximizing objective. Existing federal and state policies produce profits of \$11/GJ. Distributed RNG production with CCS potentially catalyzes markets and technologies for CO$_2$ capture, transport, and storage in California.
Current AI-driven research in radiology requires resources and expertise that are often inaccessible to small and resource-limited labs. The clinicians who are able to participate in AI research are frequently well-funded, well-staffed, and either have significant experience with AI and computing, or have access to colleagues or facilities that do. Current imaging data is clinician-oriented and is not easily amenable to machine learning initiatives, resulting in inefficient, time consuming, and costly efforts that rely upon a crew of data engineers and machine learning scientists, and all too often preclude radiologists from driving AI research and innovation. We present the system and methodology we have developed to address infrastructure and platform needs, while reducing the staffing and resource barriers to entry. We emphasize a data-first and modular approach that streamlines the AI development and deployment process while providing efficient and familiar interfaces for radiologists, such that they can be the drivers of new AI innovations.
Advances in ICT4D and data science facilitate systematic, reproducible, and scalable data cleaning for strengthening routine health information systems. A logic model for data cleaning was used and it included an algorithm for screening, diagnosis, and editing datasets in a rule-based, interactive, and semi-automated manner. Apriori computational workflows and operational definitions were prepared. Model performance was illustrated using the dengue line-list of the National Vector Borne Disease Control Programme, Punjab, India from 01 January 2015 to 31 December 2019. Cleaning and imputation for an estimated date were successful for 96.1% and 98.9% records for the year 2015 and 2016 respectively, and for all cases in the year 2017, 2018, and 2019. Information for age and sex was cleaned and extracted for more than 98.4% and 99.4% records. The logic model application resulted in the development of an analysis-ready dataset that can be used to understand spatiotemporal epidemiology and facilitate data-based public health decision making.
The IBM-HBCU Quantum Center is a first-of-a-kind collaboration between IBM and a consortium of Historically Black Colleges and Universities (HBCUs) that seeks to address the lack of Black representation and build a diverse and aware workforce in quantum information science and engineering (QISE). Key pillars of the Center are focused on 1) building community and fostering a sense of belonging, 2) strengthening relationships internally and with the broader quantum community, and 3) providing funding to support undergraduate, graduate, and faculty research at HBCUs. As a part of the program, students and faculty are invited to participate in grant development workshops, a QISE invited speaker series, community hack-a-thons, and other opportunities to build competencies in the growing field of QISE. Since its launch, the IBM-HBCU Quantum Center has engaged a community of over 400 students, faculty, and researchers and will continue to establish a research presence in QISE and increase opportunities for research and workforce development.
Context: Continuous practices, i.e., continuous integration, delivery, and deployment, are the software development industry practices that enable organizations to frequently and reliably release new features and products. With the increasing interest in and literature on continuous practices, it is important to systematically review and synthesize the approaches, tools, challenges, and practices reported for adopting and implementing continuous practices. Objective: This research aimed at systematically reviewing the state of the art of continuous practices to classify approaches and tools, identify challenges and practices in this regard, and identify the gaps for future research. Method: We used systematic literature review (SLR) method for reviewing the peer-reviewed papers on continuous practices published between 2004 and 1st June 2016. We applied thematic analysis method for analysing the data extracted from reviewing 69 papers selected using predefined criteria. Results: We have identified thirty approaches and associated tools, which facilitate the implementation of continuous practices in the following ways: (1) "reducing build and test time in continuous integration (CI)"; (2) "increasing visibility and awareness on build and test results in CI"; (3) "supporting (semi-) automated continuous testing"; (4) "detecting violations, flaws and faults in CI"; (5) "addressing security and scalability issues in deployment pipeline", and (6) "improving dependability and reliability of deployment process". We have also determined a list of critical factors such as "testing (effort and time)", "team awareness and transparency", "good design principles", "customer", "highly skilled and motivated team", "application domain", and "appropriate infrastructure" that should be carefully considered when introducing continuous practices in a given organization.
This survey article reviews the challenges associated with deploying and optimizing big data applications and machine learning algorithms in cloud data centers and networks. The MapReduce programming model and its widely-used open-source platform; Hadoop, are enabling the development of a large number of cloud-based services and big data applications. MapReduce and Hadoop thus introduce innovative, efficient, and accelerated intensive computations and analytics. These services usually utilize commodity clusters within geographically-distributed data centers and provide cost-effective and elastic solutions. However, the increasing traffic between and within the data centers that migrate, store, and process big data, is becoming a bottleneck that calls for enhanced infrastructures capable of reducing the congestion and power consumption. Moreover, enterprises with multiple tenants requesting various big data services are challenged by the need to optimize leasing their resources at reduced running costs and power consumption while avoiding under or over utilization. In this survey, we present a summary of the characteristics of various big data programming models and applications and provide a review of cloud computing infrastructures, and related technologies such as virtualization, and software-defined networking that increasingly support big data systems. Moreover, we provide a brief review of data centers topologies, routing protocols, and traffic characteristics, and emphasize the implications of big data on such cloud data centers and their supporting networks. Wide ranging efforts were devoted to optimize systems that handle big data in terms of various applications performance metrics and/or infrastructure energy efficiency. Finally, some insights and future research directions are provided.
Machine learning (ML) pervades an increasing number of academic disciplines and industries. Its impact is profound, and several fields have been fundamentally altered by it, autonomy and computer vision for example; reliability engineering and safety will undoubtedly follow suit. There is already a large but fragmented literature on ML for reliability and safety applications, and it can be overwhelming to navigate and integrate into a coherent whole. In this work, we facilitate this task by providing a synthesis of, and a roadmap to this ever-expanding analytical landscape and highlighting its major landmarks and pathways. We first provide an overview of the different ML categories and sub-categories or tasks, and we note several of the corresponding models and algorithms. We then look back and review the use of ML in reliability and safety applications. We examine several publications in each category/sub-category, and we include a short discussion on the use of Deep Learning to highlight its growing popularity and distinctive advantages. Finally, we look ahead and outline several promising future opportunities for leveraging ML in service of advancing reliability and safety considerations. Overall, we argue that ML is capable of providing novel insights and opportunities to solve important challenges in reliability and safety applications. It is also capable of teasing out more accurate insights from accident datasets than with traditional analysis tools, and this in turn can lead to better informed decision-making and more effective accident prevention.
This study applies convolutional neural network (CNN)-based automatic segmentation and distensibility measurement of the ascending and descending aorta from 2D phase-contrast cine magnetic resonance imaging (PC-cine MRI) within the large MESA cohort with subsequent assessment on an external cohort of thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) patients. 2D PC-cine MRI images of the ascending and descending aorta at the pulmonary artery bifurcation from the MESA study were included. Train, validation, and internal test sets consisted of 1123 studies (24282 images), 374 studies (8067 images), and 375 studies (8069 images), respectively. An external test set of TAAs consisted of 37 studies (3224 images). A U-Net based CNN was constructed, and performance was evaluated utilizing dice coefficient (for segmentation) and concordance correlation coefficients (CCC) of aortic geometric parameters by comparing to manual segmentation and parameter estimation. Dice coefficients for aorta segmentation were 97.6% (CI: 97.5%-97.6%) and 93.6% (84.6%-96.7%) on the internal and external test of TAAs, respectively. CCC for comparison of manual and CNN maximum and minimum ascending aortic areas were 0.97 and 0.95, respectively, on the internal test set and 0.997 and 0.995, respectively, for the external test. CCCs for maximum and minimum descending aortic areas were 0.96 and 0. 98, respectively, on the internal test set and 0.93 and 0.93, respectively, on the external test set. We successfully developed and validated a U-Net based ascending and descending aortic segmentation and distensibility quantification model in a large multi-ethnic database and in an external cohort of TAA patients.
(abridged) The 68000 I-band light curves of variable stars detected by the OGLE survey in the Large and Small Magellanic Clouds (MCs) are fitted by Fourier series, and also correlated with the DENIS and 2MASS databases and with lists of spectroscopically confirmed M-, S- and C-stars. Lightcurves and the results of the lightcurve fitting (periods and amplitudes) and DENIS and 2MASS magnitudes are presented for 2277 M-,S-,C-stars in the MCs. The following aspects are discussed: the K-band period-luminosity relations for the spectroscopically confirmed AGB stars, period changes over a timespan of about 17 years in a subset of about 400 LPVs, and candidate obscured AGB stars.
The formation and evolution of brown dwarfs are currently "hot topics" in cool star research. Latest observations and modeling efforts on disks, accretion, outflows, spatial distribution, and binarity in the context of the formation by ejection model and alternative scenarios were presented and discussed vigorously in this splinter session. A second major topic was rotation and activity of these objects. This part included observations of rotation periods and amplitudes, variability, and X-ray activity, and their consequences for the generation of magnetic fields and the cool atmospheres.
We report the angular diameters of two Mira variables (U Ari and Z Sco), three semiregular (SR) and irregular variables (SW Vir, eta Gem and mu Gem) and a supergiant SR variable (TV Gem) by lunar occultation observations in the near-IR broad K-band (2.2 micron). Lunar occultations of eta Gem and mu Gem were also observed for the first time simultaneously in both the K and L' bands, yielding angular diameters at 2.2 and 3.8 micron. Effective temperatures and linear radii are also derived for all the observed sources and compared with earlier measurements. The mode of pulsation of both Mira and SR sources in our sample is discussed.
The current and prospective status of astronomical research in Ukraine is discussed. A brief history of astronomical research in Ukraine is presented and the system organizing scientific activity is described, including astronomy education, institutions and staff, awarding higher degrees/titles, government involvement, budgetary investments and international cooperation. Individuals contributing significantly to the field of astronomy and their accomplishments are mentioned. Major astronomical facilities, their capabilities, and their instrumentation are described. In terms of the number of institutions and personnel engaged in astronomy, and of past accomplishments, Ukraine ranks among major nations of Europe. Current difficulties associated with political, economic and technological changes are addressed and goals for future research activities presented.
We review advances in the theoretical and computational studies of disk winds, jets and outflows including: the connection between accretion and jets, the launch of jets from magnetized disks, the coupled evolution of jets and disks, the interaction of magnetized young stellar objects with their surrounding disks and the relevance to outflows, and finally, the link between jet formation and gravitational collapse. We also address the predictions that the theory makes about jet kinematics, collimation, and rotation, that have recently been confirmed by high spatial and spectral resolution observations. Disk winds have a universal character that may account for jets and outflows during the formation of massive stars as well as brown dwarfs.
We provide details of a shorter letter and cond-mat/9702098 and some new results. We describe a Chern-Simons theory for the fractional quantum Hall states in which magnetoplasmon degrees of freedom enter. We derive correlated wavefunctions, operators for creating quasiholes and composite fermions and bosons (which are electrons bound to zeros). We show how the charge of these particles and mass gets renormalized to the final values and compute the effective mass approximately. By deriving a hamiltonian description of the composite fermions and bosons and their charge and current operators, we make precise and reconcile many notions that have been associated with them.
The effect of the on-ramp and off-ramp positions $i_1$ and $i_2$, respectively, on the one dimensional-cellular automaton traffic flow behaviour, is investigated numerically. The on-ramp and off-ramp rates at $i_1$ and $i_2$ are $\alpha_0$ and $\beta_0$, respectively. However, in the open boundary conditions, with injecting and extracting rates $\alpha$ and $\beta$ and using parallel dynamics, several phases occur, depending on the position of $i_1$ by respect to $i_2$. Namely, low density phase (LDP), intermediate density phase (IDP), plateau current phase (PCP) and high density phase (HDP). Furthermore, critical, tricritical and multicritical behaviours take place in the $(i_1,\alpha_0)$ phase diagrams.
Lifshitz-type formulas are obtained for the van der Waals and Casimir interaction between graphene and a material plate, graphene and an atom or a molecule, and between a single-wall carbon nanotube and a plate. The reflection properties of electromagnetic oscillations on graphene are governed by the specific boundary conditions imposed on the infinitely thin positively charged plasma sheet, carrying a continuous fluid with some mass and charge density. The obtained formulas are applied to graphene interacting with Au and Si plates, to hydrogen atoms and molecules interacting with graphene, and to single-wall carbon nanotubes interacting with Au and Si plates. The generalizations to more complicated carbon nanostructures are discussed.
We study the scalar and spinor perturbation to Kerr-NUT space-time, that is, Klein-Gordan and Dirac equation therein. The equations are invariant under duality transformation between the gravitational electric (M) and magnetic (l) charge, radial and angular coordinate, and radial and angular component of the field. We solve the equations separating into radial and angular parts. Moreover, if sets of Klein-Gordan and Dirac equation and corresponding solutions are known for Kerr space-time, under duality transformation, those in dual Kerr space-time are shown to be achieved. A few examples of solution are shown. We comment about the horizon and singularity conditions.
We developed a new and unified scheme for describing both quark spin and orbital angular momenta in symmetry-breaking chiral quark model. The loss of quark spin in the chiral splitting processes is compensated by the gain of the orbital angular momentum carried by quarks and antiquarks. The sum of both spin and orbital angular momenta carried by quarks and antiquarks is 1/2. The analytic and numerical results for the spin and orbital angular momenta carried by quarks and antiquarks in the nucleon are given. Extension to other octet and decuplet baryons is also presented. Possible modification and application are discussed.
The present theoretical knowledge about photons and hard photoproduction processes, i.e. the production of jets, light and heavy hadrons, quarkonia, and prompt photons in photon-photon and photon-hadron collisions, is reviewed. Virtual and polarized photons and prompt photon production in hadron collisions are also discussed. The most important leading and next-to-leading order QCD results are compiled in analytic form. A large variety of numerical predictions is compared to data from TRISTAN, LEP, and HERA and extended to future electron and muon colliders. The sources of all relevant results are collected in a rich bibliography.
Thermalization and collective flow of charm (c) and bottom (b) quarks are evaluated from elastic parton scattering via "D"- and "B"-meson resonances in an expanding, strongly interacting quark-gluon plasma at RHIC. Pertinent drag and diffusion coefficients are implemented into a relativistic Langevin simulation to compute transverse-momentum spectra and azimuthal flow asymmetries (v_2) of c- and b-quarks. Upon hadronization (including coalescence and fragmentation) and semileptonic D- and B-decays, the resulting electron spectra (R_{AA} and v_2) are compared to recent RHIC data.
Elastic scattering of charm (c) and bottom (b) quarks via D- and B-meson resonance states in an expanding, strongly interacting quark-gluon plasma is investigated. Drag and diffusion coefficients are calculated from an effective model based on chiral symmetry and heavy-quark effective theory, and utilized in a relativistic Langevin simulation to obtain transverse-momentum spectra and elliptic flow (v_2) of c- and b-quarks. The hadronization to D- and B-mesons is described by coalescence and fragmentation, and the resulting decay-electron spectra are compared to recent RHIC data.
In this expository and resources chapter we review selected aspects of the mathematics of dynamical systems, stability, and chaos, within a historical framework that draws together two threads of its early development: celestial mechanics and control theory, and focussing on qualitative theory. From this perspective we show how concepts of stability enable us to classify dynamical equations and their solutions and connect the key issues of nonlinearity, bifurcation, control, and uncertainty that are common to time-dependent problems in natural and engineered systems. We discuss stability and bifurcations in three simple model problems, and conclude with a survey of recent extensions of stability theory to complex networks.
The results of measurements and computer simulations of radioactivities and dose rates as functions of decay time are presented for Pb-nat and Bi-209 irradiated by 1.5-GeV protons, Co-59, Cu-63, and Cu-65 irradiated by 0.13- and 1.2-GeV protons, and Th-232 and U-nat irradiated by 0.1- and 0.8-GeV protons. The activities and dose rates are measured by direct high-precision gamma spectrometry. The irradiations were made using external beams extracted from the ITEP U-10 proton synchrotron. Simulations made using the LCS and CINDER'90 code systems are compared with measurements.
The recent theoretical and experimental activities in positronium (Ps) scattering by atoms and molecules are reviewed with special emphasis at low energies. We critically compare the results of different groups $-$ theoretical and experimental. The theoretical approaches considered include the $R$-matrix and close-coupling methods applied to Ps-H, Ps-He, and Ps-Li scattering, and a coupled-channel approach with a nonlocal model-potential for Ps scattering by H, He, H$_2$, Ne, Ar, Li, Na, K, Rb, Cs, and Ps and for pickoff quenching in Ps-He scattering. Results for scattering lengths, partial, total and differential cross sections as well as resonance and binding energies in different systems are discussed.
We observed the Mars Trojan asteroids (5261) Eureka and (101429) 1998 VF31 and the candidate Mars Trojan 2001 FR127 at 11.2 and 18.1 microns using Michelle on the Gemini North telescope. We derive diameters of 1.28, 0.78, and <0.52 km, respectively, with corresponding geometric visible albedos of 0.39, 0.32, and >0.14. The albedos for Eureka and 1998 VF31 are consistent with the taxonomic classes and compositions (S(I)/angritic and S(VII)/achrondritic, respectively) and implied histories presented in a companion paper by Rivkin et al. Eureka's surface likely has a relatively high thermal inertia, implying a thin regolith that is consistent with predictions and the small size that we derive.
We have measured new submillimeter-wave data around 600 GHz and around 1.1 THz for the 13C isotopologue of formic acid and for the two deuterium isotopomers; in each case for both the trans and cis rotamer. For cis-DCOOH and cis-HCOOD in particular only data up to 50 GHz was previously available. For all species the quality and quantity of molecular parameters has been increased providing new measured frequencies and more precise and reliable frequencies in the range of existing and near-future submillimeter and far-infrared astronomical spectroscopy instruments such as Herschel, SOFIA and ALMA.
Electron pairing and ferromagnetism in various cluster geometries are studied with emphasis on tetrahedron and square pyramid under variation of interaction strength, electron doping and temperature. These exact calculations of charge and spin collective excitations and pseudogaps yield intriguing insights into level crossing degeneracies, phase separation and condensation. Criteria for spin-charge separation and reconciliation driven by interaction strength, next nearest coupling and temperature are found. Phase diagrams resemble a number of inhomogeneous, coherent and incoherent nanoscale phases seen recently in high T$_c$ cuprates, manganites and CMR nanomaterials.
We construct the phase diagram of the chiral and diquark condensates at finite temperature and density in the 1+1 dimensional (2D) two flavor massless Gross Neveu model. The resultant phase diagram shows (I) the chiral condensed phase at low temperature and density, (II) the diquark condensed phase at low temperature and high density, and (III) the chiral and diquark coexisting phase at low temperature and intermediate density. This phase structure is also seen in the 3D Gross Neveu model and the 4D Nambu Jona-Lasinio (NJL) model. Thus the phase diagrams of the chiral and diquark condensates in the NJL-type models do not change qualitatively in 2D, 3D and 4D.
As an introduction to the special issue on "emerging nanotechnologies", this paper puts in perspective contemporary debates and challenges about nanotechnology. It presents an overview of diverse analyses and expectations about this presumably revolutionary set of technological, scientific and industrial developments. Three main lines of argument can then be delineated: first of all, the degree of cumulativeness of science and technologies and the respective roles of newcomers and incumbents in the industrial dynamics; second the knowledge dynamics in nanotechnologies, especially the linkages by science and technology and third the role of institutions (network, geographic agglomeration and job market). It finally discusses methodologies to delineate the field of nanotechnologies and to collect data.
We investigate whether and how different fragmentation properties of quarks and gluons affect identified particle spectra. We present a systematic study of $\pi$, $K$ and $p$ production in minimum bias (inelastic, non-diffractive), two- and three-jet events at RHIC, Tevatron and LHC energies. Through the study of two- and three-jet events and various jet-production channels we can directly access the fragmentation properties of quark and gluon jets. We present MC estimate for the contribution of quark and gluon jets to individual particle species spectra, that can be compared to experimental results and test our current knowledge of the physics behind particle production inside jets.
A Multi-hop Control Network (MCN) consists of a plant where the communication between sensor, actuator and computational unit is supported by a wireless multi-hop communication network, and data flow is performed using scheduling and routing of sensing and actuation data. We address the problem of characterizing controllability and observability of a MCN, by means of necessary and sufficient conditions on the plant dynamics and on the communication scheduling and routing. We provide a methodology to design scheduling and routing, in order to satisfy controllability and observability of a MCN for any fault occurrence in a given set of configurations of failures.
An effective yet simple means disclosed herewith has allowed us to gain the atomistic, local, and quantitative information of bonds and electrons at sites surrounding undercoordinated atoms, complementing the scanning tunneling microscopy/spectroscopy and photoelectron spectroscopy (XPS). Examining Rh and Pt surfaces with and without adatoms and graphite surface with and without atomic vacancies, we confirmed that: i) bonds between undercoordinated atoms become shorter and stronger; ii) subjective polarization happens to the valence electrons of defects or adatoms by the densely entrapped bonding electrons, which in turn screens and splits the crystal field and hence the core band of the specimen.
We have established a program aimed to the development of small computer applications and web applets to be used for educational purposes and to teach gravitational waves physics and technology, and for the general gravitational wave outreach activities. The computer programs are generated in collaboration with undergraduates and summer students as part of our teaching activities, and are freely distributed on a dedicated website. As part of this program, we have developed two computer-games related to gravitational wave science: 'Black Hole Pong' and 'Space Time Quest'. In this article we overview our computer related outreach activity, present and discuss the games and their educational aspects, and report on some positive feedback received.
The continuous information explosion through the Internet and all information sources makes it necessary to perform all information processing activities automatically in quick and reliable manners. In this paper, we proposed and implemented a method to automatically create and Index for books written in Arabic language. The process depends largely on text summarization and abstraction processes to collect main topics and statements in the book. The process is developed in terms of accuracy and performance and results showed that this process can effectively replace the effort of manually indexing books and document, a process that can be very useful in all information processing and retrieval applications.
Carbon and oxygen abundances in F and G main-sequence stars ranging in metallicity from [Fe/H] = -1.6 to +0.5 are determined from a non-LTE analysis of CI and OI atomic lines in high-resolution spectra. Both C and O are good tracers of stellar populations; distinct trends of [C/Fe] and [O/Fe] as a function of [Fe/H] are found for high- and low-alpha halo stars and for thick- and thin-disk stars. These trends and that of [C/O] provide new information on the nucleosynthesis sites of carbon and the time-scale for the chemical enrichment of the various Galactic components.
We study various binomial and monomial ideals arising in the theory of divisors, orientations, and matroids on graphs. We use ideas from potential theory on graphs and from the theory of Delaunay decompositions for lattices to describe their minimal polyhedral cellular free resolutions. We show that the resolutions of all these ideals are closely related and that their $\mathbb{Z}$-graded Betti tables coincide. As corollaries, we give conceptual proofs of conjectures and questions posed by Postnikov and Shapiro, by Manjunath and Sturmfels, and by Perkinson, Perlman, and Wilmes. Various other results related to the theory of chip-firing games on graphs also follow from our general techniques and results.
The mini-review gives special attention to holistic approach and mechanisms of processes. The physical and chemical frames and background for visual perception and signalling are discussed. Perception of photons by retinal rod cells is described in more detail starting from photon absorption and culminating in ion currents. Dark noise and temperature-dependence of photoreceptor cells are analysed. Perception of polarised light, its effects and informational importance are discussed based on underlying mechanisms and specialised morphological structures of biological organisms. Role of statistics of photons in photoreception is questioned. The review also pinpoints new and developing directions and raises questions for the future research.
Calibration and validation techniques are crucial in assessing the descriptive and predictive power of car-following models and their suitability for analyzing traffic flow. Using real and generated floating-car and trajectory data, we systematically investigate following aspects: Data requirements and preparation, conceptional approach including local maximum-likelihood and global LSE calibration with several objective functions, influence of the data sampling rate and measuring errors, the effect of data smoothing on the calibration result, and model performance in terms of fitting quality, robustness, parameter orthogonality, completeness and plausible parameter values.
This paper describes an immersive and interactive visualization environment that uses light as a metaphor for psychological phenomena. Creative life force is portrayed as ambient light, and peoples' psyches are represented by spheres that amplify and transform light. Personality characteristics, situations, and relationships are systematically depicted using a systematic visual language based on the properties of light and how it interacts with physical objects. The technology enables users to visualize and creatively experiment with light-based representations of themselves and others, including patterns of interaction and how they have come about, and how they could change and unfold in the future.
Three kinds of identities involving non-commutating operators and Euler and Bernoulli polynomials are studied. The first identity, as given by Bender and Bettencourt, expresses the nested commutator of the Hamiltonian and momentum operators as the commutator of the momentum and the shifted Euler polynomial of the Hamiltonian. The second one, due to J.-C. Pain, links the commutators and anti-commutators of the monomials of the position and momentum operators. The third appears in a work by Figuieira de Morisson and Fring in the context of non-Hermitian Hamiltonian systems. In each case, we provide several proofs and extensions of these identities that highlight the role of Euler and Bernoulli polynomials.
The automatic content analysis of mass media in the social sciences has become necessary and possible with the raise of social media and computational power. One particularly promising avenue of research concerns the use of opinion mining. We design and implement the POPmine system which is able to collect texts from web-based conventional media (news items in mainstream media sites) and social media (blogs and Twitter) and to process those texts, recognizing topics and political actors, analyzing relevant linguistic units, and generating indicators of both frequency of mention and polarity (positivity/negativity) of mentions to political actors across sources, types of sources, and across time.
We performed the photometric analysis of M2 and M92 globular clusters in g and r bands of SLOAN photometric system. We transformed these g and r bands into BV bands of Johnson-Cousins photometric system and built the color magnitude diagram (CMD). We estimated the age, and metallicity of both the clusters, by fitting Padova isochrones of different age and metallicities onto the CMD. We studied Einstein and de Sitter model, bench mark model, the cosmological parameters by WMAP and Planck surveys. Finally, we compared estimated age of globular clusters to the ages from the cosmological models and cosmological parameters values of WMAP and Planck surveys.
We present an update of the ABM12 PDF analysis including improved constraints due to the final version of the inclusive DIS HERA data, the Tevatron and LHC data on the W- and Z-production and those on heavy-quark production in the electron- and neutrino-induced DIS at HERA and the fixed-target experiments NOMAD and CHORUS. We also check the impact of the Tevatron and LHC top-quark production data on the PDFs and the strong coupling constant. We obtain $\alpha_s(M_Z)=0.1145(9)$ and $0.1147(8)$ with and without the top-quark data included, respectively.
This paper investigates formal logics for reasoning about determinacy and independence. Propositional Dependence Logic D and Propositional Independence Logic I are recently developed logical systems, based on team semantics, that provide a framework for such reasoning tasks. We introduce two new logics L_D and L_I, based on Kripke semantics, and propose them as alternatives for D and I, respectively. We analyze the relative expressive powers of these four logics and discuss the way these systems relate to natural language. We argue that L_D and L_I naturally resolve a range of interpretational problems that arise in D and I. We also obtain sound and complete axiomatizations for L_D and L_I.
For two simple graphs $G_1$ and $G_2$, we denote the subdivision-vertex join and subdivision-edge join of $G_1$ and $G_2$ by $G_1\dot{\vee}G_2$ and $G_1\veebar G_2$, respectively. This paper determines the normalized Laplacian spectra of $G_1\dot{\vee}G_2$ and $G_1\veebar G_2$ in terms of these of $G_1$ and $G_2$ whenever $G_1$ and $G_2$ are regular. As applications, we construct some non-regular normalized Laplacian cospectral graphs. Besides we also compute the number of spanning trees and the degree-Kirchhoff index of $G_1\dot{\vee}G_2$ and $G_1\veebar G_2$ for regular graphs $G_1$ and $G_2$.
This volume contains the proceedings of the Sixth Workshop on Logical and Semantic Frameworks with Applications (LSFA 2011). The workshop will be hold in Belo Horizonte, on August 27th 2011.   Logical and semantic frameworks are formal languages used to represent logics, languages and systems. These frameworks provide foundations for formal specification of systems and programming languages, supporting tool development and reasoning.   The objective of this one-day workshop is to put together theoreticians and practitioners to promote new techniques and results, from the theoretical side, and feedback on the implementation and the use of such techniques and results, from the practical side.
Applications of first passage times in stochastic processes arise across a wide range of length and time scales in biological settings. After an initial technical overview, we survey representative applications and their corresponding models. Within models that are effectively Markovian, we discuss canonical examples of first passage problems spanning applications to molecular dissociation and self-assembly, molecular search, transcription and translation, neuronal spiking, cellular mutation and disease, and organismic evolution and population dynamics. In this last application, a simple model for stem-cell ageing is presented and some results derived. Various approximation methods and the physical and mathematical subtleties that arise in the chosen applications are also discussed.
The effect of dipolar interaction and local uniaxial anisotropy on the magnetic response of small spin clusters where spins are located on the vertices of icosahedron, cuboctahedron, tetrahedron and square geometry have been investigated. We consider the ferromagnetic and antiferromagnetic spin-1/2 and spin-1 Heisenberg model with uniaxial anisotropy and dipolar interaction and apply numerical exact diagonalization technique in order to study the influence of frustration and anisotropy on the ground state properties of the spin-clusters. The ground state magnetization, spin-spin correlation and several thermodynamic quantities such as entropy and specific heat are calculated as a function of temperature and magnetic field.
Recently, Holm and Ivanov, proposed and studied a class of multi-component generalisations of the Camassa-Holm equations [D D Holm and R I Ivanov, Multi-component generalizations of the CH equation: geometrical aspects, peakons and numerical examples, J. Phys A: Math. Theor. 43, 492001 (20pp), 2010]. We consider two of those systems, denoted by Holm and Ivanov by CH(2,1) and CH(2,2), and report a class of integrating factors and its corresponding conservation laws for these two systems. In particular, we obtain the complete sent of first-order integrating factors for the systems in Cauchy-Kovalevskaya form and evaluate the corresponding sets of conservation laws for CH(2,1) and CH(2,2).
In this paper, we study the existence, stability and bifurcation of random complete and periodic solutions for stochastic parabolic equations with multiplicative noise. We first prove the existence and uniqueness of tempered random attractors for the stochastic equations and characterize the structures of the attractors by random complete solutions. We then examine the existence and stability of random complete quasi-solutions and establish the relations of these solutions and the structures of tempered attractors. When the stochastic equations are incorporated with periodic forcing, we obtain the existence and stability of random periodic solutions. For the stochastic Chafee-Infante equation, we further establish the multiplicity and stochastic bifurcation of complete and periodic solutions.
The diverse applications of terahertz radiation and its importance to fundamental science makes finding ways to generate, manipulate, and detect terahertz radiation one of the key areas of modern applied physics. One approach is to utilize carbon nanomaterials, in particular, single-wall carbon nanotubes and graphene. Their novel optical and electronic properties offer much promise to the field of terahertz science and technology. This article describes the past, current, and future of the terahertz science and technology of carbon nanotubes and graphene. We will review fundamental studies such as terahertz dynamic conductivity, terahertz nonlinearities, and ultrafast carrier dynamics as well as terahertz applications such as terahertz sources, detectors, modulators, antennas, and polarizers.
We consider the possibilities for producing ultracold mixtures of K and Cs and forming KCs molecules by magnetoassociation. We carry out coupled-channel calculations of the interspecies scattering length for $^{39}$KCs, $^{41}$KCs and $^{40}$KCs and characterize Feshbach resonances due to s-wave and d-wave bound states, with widths ranging from below 1 nG to 5 G. We also calculate the corresponding bound-state energies as a function of magnetic field. We give a general discussion of the combinations of intraspecies and interspecies scattering lengths needed to form low-temperature atomic mixtures and condensates and identify promising strategies for cooling and molecule formation for all three isotopic combinations of K and Cs.
We report on the structure and physical properties of bulk Palladium Tellurium superconductor, which is synthesized via quartz vacuum encapsulation technique at 750 C. The as synthesized compound is crystallized in hexagonal crystal structure. Magnetization and Magneto-transport measurements provided the values of lower and upper critical field to be 250 and 1200 Gauss respectively at 2 Kelvin. The Coherence length and GL parameter are estimated from the experimentally determined upper and lower critical fields, which are 45 nm and 1.48 respectively. The jump in Cp(T) at Tc is found to be 1.33 and the Debye temperature and electronic specific heat constant are 203 Kelvin and 6.01mJ/mole-K2 respectively.
This research work aims to study personality profiles and temperaments of Pakistani software engineering professors and students. In this survey we have collected personality profiles of 18 professors and 92 software engineering students. According to the Myers-Briggs Type Indicator (MBTI) instrument, the most prominent personality type among professors as well as among students is a combination of Introversion, Sensing, Thinking, and Judging (ISTJ). The study shows ITs (Introverts and Thinking) and IJs (Introverts and Judging) are the leading temperaments among the professors. About the students data, the results of the study indicate SJs (Sensing and Judging) and ISs (Introverts and Sensing) as the dominant temperaments.
Circular Electron-Positron Collider(CEPC) is one of the largest plans in high energy physics study at China, which would serve as Higgs Factory firstly and then upgrade to a hadron collider. In this paper we give the 50km and 100km design in both single ring and double ring schemes, including $Z$ boson and $W$ boson and Higgs boson by using the optimized method. Also, we give the potential of CEPC running at $Z$ and $W$ poles. And we analysis the relationship of luminosity with circumference and filling factor, which gives a way to evaluate the choice of geometry. What's more, we compare the nominal performance of CEPC-SPPC and LHC and FCC.
Advances in ICT are bringing into reality the vision of a large number of uniquely identifiable, interconnected objects and things that gather information from diverse physical environments and deliver the information to a variety of innovative applications and services. These sensing objects and things form the Internet of Things (IoT) that can improve energy and cost efficiency and automation in many different industry fields such as transportation and logistics, health care and manufacturing, and facilitate our everyday lives as well. IoT applications rely on real-time context data and allow sending information for driving the behaviors of users in intelligent environments.
Detection and learning based appearance feature play the central role in data association based multiple object tracking (MOT), but most recent MOT works usually ignore them and only focus on the hand-crafted feature and association algorithms. In this paper, we explore the high-performance detection and deep learning based appearance feature, and show that they lead to significantly better MOT results in both online and offline setting. We make our detection and appearance feature publicly available. In the following part, we first summarize the detection and appearance feature, and then introduce our tracker named Person of Interest (POI), which has both online and offline version.
The Collaboration for Astronomy Signal Processing and Electronics Research (CASPER) has been working for a decade to reduce the time and cost of designing, building and deploying new digital radio-astronomy instruments. Today, CASPER open-source technology powers over 45 scientific instruments worldwide, and is used by scientists and engineers at dozens of academic institutions. In this paper we catalog the current offerings of the CASPER collaboration, and instruments past and present built by CASPER users and developers. We describe the ongoing state of software development, as CASPER looks to support a broader range of programming environments and hardware and ensure compatibility with the latest vendor tools.
We determine the retarded and advanced Green's functions and Hadamard parametrices in curved spacetimes for linearized massive and massless gauge bosons and linearized Einstein gravity with a cosmological constant in general linear covariant gauges. These vector and tensor parametrices contain additional singular terms compared with their Feynman/de Donder-gauge counterpart. We also give explicit recursion relations for the Hadamard coefficients, and indicate their generalization to $n$ dimensions. Furthermore, we express the divergence and trace of the vector and tensor Green's functions in terms of derivatives of scalar and vector Green's functions, and show how these relations appear as Ward identities in the free quantum theory.
Crime has both varying patterns in space, related to features of the environment, economy, and policing, and patterns in time arising from criminal behavior, such as retaliation. Serious crimes may also be presaged by minor crimes of disorder. We demonstrate that these spatial and temporal patterns are generally confounded, requiring analyses to take both into account, and propose a spatio-temporal self-exciting point process model which incorporates spatial features, near-repeat and retaliation effects, and triggering. We develop inference methods and diagnostic tools, such as residual maps, for this model, and through extensive simulation and crime data obtained from Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, demonstrate its properties and usefulness.
Authentication and authorization are critical security layers to protect a wide range of online systems, services and content. However, the increased prevalence of wearable and mobile devices, the expectations of a frictionless experience and the diverse user environments will challenge the way users are authenticated. Consumers demand secure and privacy-aware access from any device, whenever and wherever they are, without any obstacles. This paper reviews emerging trends and challenges with frictionless authentication systems and identifies opportunities for further research related to the enrollment of users, the usability of authentication schemes, as well as security and privacy trade-offs of mobile and wearable continuous authentication systems.
Left- and right-handed helical modes' statistical absolute equilibria appear \textit{separately}. If both chiral sectors present, one can dominate around its positive pole, which is relevant to the nearly maximally helical (force free for magnetic field) states of turbulence. Pure magnetodynamics (PMD, or electron magnetohydrodynamics --- EMHD), pure hydrodynamics (PHD), and, single-fluid and two-fluid MHDs are studied. Relevant documented data and issues of cascade properties, and, helical and nonhelical dynamos are revisited. We also discuss new scenarios, such as PMD inverse magnetic helicity and forward energy cascades, and, the continuous transition from completely-inverse to partly-inverse-and-partly-forward and to completely-forward energy transfers in PHD.
The optical and electrical properties of optically-thin one-dimensional (1D) Ag nanogratings and two-dimensional (2D) Ag nanogrids are studied, and their use as transparent electrodes in organic photovoltaics are explored. A large broadband and polarization-insensitive optical absorption enhancement in the organic light-harvesting layers is theoretically and numerically demonstrated using either single-layer 2D Ag nanogrids or two perpendicular 1D Ag nanogratings, and is attributed to the excitation of surface plasmon resonances and plasmonic cavity modes. Total photon absorption enhancements of 150% and 200% are achieved for the optimized single-layer 2D Ag nanogrids and double (top and bottom) perpendicular 1D Ag nanogratings, respectively.
We present a powerful and easy-to-implement algorithm for solving constrained optimization problems that involve $L_1$/total-variation regularization terms, and both equality and inequality constraints. We discuss the relationship of our method to earlier works of Goldstein and Osher (2009) and Chartrand and Wohlberg (2010), and demonstrate that our approach is a combination of the augmented Lagrangian method with splitting and model projection. We test the method on a geomechanical problem and invert highly compartmentalized pressure change from noisy surface uplift observations. We conclude the paper with a discussion of possible extension to a wide class of regularized optimization problems with bound and equality constraints.
Let $A=KQ_A/I_A$ and $B=KQ_B/I_B$ be two finite-dimensional bound quiver algebras, fix two vertices $a\in Q_A$ and $b\in Q_B$. We define an algebra $\Lambda=KQ_\Lambda/I_\Lambda$, which is called a simple gluing algebra of $A$ and $B$, where $Q_\Lambda$ is from $Q_A$ and $Q_B$ by identifying $a$ and $b$, $I_\Lambda=\langle I_A,I_B\rangle$. We prove that $\Lambda$ is Gorenstein if and only if $A$ and $B$ are Gorenstein, and describe the Gorenstein projective modules, singularity category, Gorenstein defect category and also Cohen-Macaulay Auslander algebra of $\Lambda$ from the corresponding ones of $A$ and $B$.
Pure and homogeneous biological macromolecules (i.e. proteins, nucleic acids, protein-protein or protein-nucleic acid complexes, and functional assemblies such as ribosomes and viruses) are the key for consistent and reliable biochemical and biophysical measurements, as well as for reproducible crystallizations, best crystal diffraction properties, and exploitable electron microscopy images. Highlights: Pure and homogeneous macromolecules are the key for the best experimental results; They warrant the consistency and the reliability of biochemical and biophysical data; They give more reproducible crystallography and electron microscopy results as well.
This paper gives an overview of electronic learning (E-Learning) and mobile learning (M-Learning) adoption and diffusion trends, as well as their particular traits, characteristics and issues, especially in terms of cross-cultural and universal usability. E-Learning and M-Learning models using web services and cloud computing, as well as associated security concerns are all addressed. The benefits and enhancements that accrue from using mobile and other internet devices for the purposes of learning in academia are discussed. The differences between traditional classroom-based learning, distance learning, E-Learning and M-Learning models are compared and some conclusions are drawn.
We report self-assembly and phase transition behavior of lower diamondoid molecules and their primary derivatives using molecular dynamic (MD) simulation and density functional theory (DFT) calculations. Two lower diamondoids (adamantane and diamantane), three adamantane derivatives (amantadine, memantine and rimantadine) and two artificial molecules (Adamantane+Na and Diamantane+Na) are studied separately in 125-molecule simulation systems. We performed DFT calculations to optimize their molecular geometries and obtain atomic electronic charges for the corresponding MD simulation, by which we obtained self-assembly structures and simulation trajectories for the seven molecules. Radial distribution functions and structure factors studies showed clear phase transitions for the seven molecules.
Traditional centralized energy systems have the disadvantages of difficult management and insufficient incentives. Blockchain is an emerging technology, which can be utilized in energy systems to enhance their management and control. Integrating token economy and blockchain technology, token economic systems in energy possess the characteristics of strong incentives and low cost, facilitating integrating renewable energy and demand side management, and providing guarantees for improving energy efficiency and reducing emission. This article describes the concept and functionality of token economics, and then analyzes the feasibility of applying token economics in the energy systems, and finally discuss the applications of token economics with an example in integrated energy systems.
Algorithmic and data bias are gaining attention as a pressing issue in popular press - and rightly so. However, beyond these calls to action, standard processes and tools for practitioners do not readily exist to assess and address unfair algorithmic and data biases. The literature is relatively scattered and the needed interdisciplinary approach means that very different communities are working on the topic. We here provide a number of challenges encountered in assessing and addressing algorithmic and data bias in practice. We describe an early approach that attempts to translate the literature into processes for (production) teams wanting to assess both intended data and algorithm characteristics and unintended, unfair biases.
This work provides a characterization of left and right Zinbiel algebras.Basic identities are established and discussed, showing that Zinbiel algebras are center-symmetric, and therefore Lie-admissible algebras. Their bimodules are given, and used to build a Zinbiel algebra structure on the direct sum of the underlying vector space and a finite-dimensional vector space. In addition, their matched pair is built, and related to the matched pair of their sub-adjacent Lie algebras. Besides, Zinbiel coalgebras are introduced, and linked to their underlying Lie coalgebras and coassociative coalgebras. Moreover, the related Manin triple is defined, and used to characterize Zinbiel bialgebras, and their equivalence to the associated matched pair.
With the Internet of Things (IoT), Things are expected to live in different "domains" and "contexts" during their lifetime. Information generated by and associated with Things should be manageable by multiple, diverse stakeholders accordingly. Moreover, the scope of the information related to Things can range from private and confidential to public and auditable. Identification, security, and interoperability in this vivid environment are expected to be challenging. In this paper we discuss how smart contracts and blockchain technologies create the potential for a viable solution. To this end, we present smart contract-based solutions that improve security and information management, we identify new opportunities and challenges, and we provide security recommendations and guidelines.
When two operators $A$ and $B$ do not commute, the calculation of the exponential operator $e^{A+B}$ is a difficult and crucial problem. The applications are vast and diversified: to name but a few examples, quantum evolutions, product formulas, quantum control, Zeno effect. The latter are of great interest in quantum applications and quantum technologies. We present here a historical survey of results and techniques, and discuss differences and similarities. We also highlight the link with the strong coupling regime, via the adiabatic theorem, and contend that the "pulsed" and "continuous" formulations differ only in the order by which two limits are taken, and are but two faces of the same coin.
Probabilistic generative deep learning for molecular design involves the discovery and design of new molecules and analysis of their structure, properties and activities by probabilistic generative models using the deep learning approach. It leverages the existing huge databases and publications of experimental results, and quantum-mechanical calculations, to learn and explore molecular structure, properties and activities. We discuss the major components of probabilistic generative deep learning for molecular design, which include molecular structure, molecular representations, deep generative models, molecular latent representations and latent space, molecular structure-property and structure-activity relationships, molecular similarity and molecular design. We highlight significant recent work using or applicable to this new approach.
This review focuses on the studies and computations of few-body systems of electrons and holes in condensed matter physics. We analyze and illustrate the application of a variety of methods for description of two- three- and four-body excitonic complexes such as an exciton, trion and biexciton in three-, two- and one-dimensional configuration spaces in various types of materials. We discuss and analyze the contributions made over the years to understanding how the reduction of dimensionality affects the binding energy of excitons, trions and biexcitons in bulk and low dimensional semiconductors and address the challenges that still remain.
Following earlier work by Aldo de Luca and others, we study trapezoidal words and their prefixes, with respect to their characteristic parameters $K$ and $R$ (length of shortest unrepeated suffix, and shortest length without right special factors, respectively), as well as their symmetric versions $H$ and $L$. We consider the distinction between closed (i.e., periodic-like) and open prefixes, and between Sturmian and non-Sturmian ones. Our main results characterize right special and strictly bispecial trapezoidal words, as done by de Luca and Mignosi for Sturmian words.
Raising awareness among young people and changing their behavior and habits concerning energy usage and the environment is key to achieving a sustainable planet. The goal to address the global climate problem requires informing the population on their roles in mitigation actions and adaptation of sustainable behaviors. Addressing climate change and achieve ambitious energy and climate targets requires a change in citizen behavior and consumption practices. IoT sensing and related scenario and practices, which address school children via discovery, gamification, and educational activities, are examined in this paper. Use of seawater sensors in STEM education, that has not previously been addressed, is included in these educational scenaria.
Machine learning and blockchain are two of the most noticeable technologies in recent years. The first one is the foundation of artificial intelligence and big data, and the second one has significantly disrupted the financial industry. Both technologies are data-driven, and thus there are rapidly growing interests in integrating them for more secure and efficient data sharing and analysis. In this paper, we review the research on combining blockchain and machine learning technologies and demonstrate that they can collaborate efficiently and effectively. In the end, we point out some future directions and expect more researches on deeper integration of the two promising technologies.
This paper presents the basic concepts and the module structure of the Distributed and Unified Numerics Environment and reflects on recent developments and general changes that happened since the release of the first Dune version in 2007 and the main papers describing that state [1, 2]. This discussion is accompanied with a description of various advanced features, such as coupling of domains and cut cells, grid modifications such as adaptation and moving domains, high order discretizations and node level performance, non-smooth multigrid methods, and multiscale methods. A brief discussion on current and future development directions of the framework concludes the paper.
Let $A$ and $B$ be C*-algebras and $\varphi\colon A\to B$ be a $*$-homomorphism. We discuss the properties of the kernel and (co-)image of the induced map $\mathrm{K}_{0}(\varphi)\colon \mathrm{K}_{0}(A) \to \mathrm{K}_{0}(B)$ on the level of K-theory. In particular, we are interested in the case that the co-image is torsion free, and show that it holds when $A$ and $ B $ are commutative and unital, $B$ has real rank zero, and $\varphi$ is unital and injective. We also show that $ A$ is embeddable in $B$ if $ \mathrm{K}_{0}(\varphi)$ is injective and $A$ has stable rank one and real rank zero.
We first outline the Standard Model (SM) of particle physics, particle production and decay, and the expected signal and background at a Higgs factory like the International Linear Collider (ILC). We then introduce high energy colliders and collider detectors, and briefly detail the ILC and the Silicon Detector (SiD), one of the two detectors proposed for the ILC. Next we review the available software tools for ILC event generation, SiD detector simulation, and event reconstruction. Finally we suggest open avenues in research for detector optimization and physics analysis. The pedagogical level is suitable for advanced undergraduate and beginning graduate students in physics and research scientists in related fields.
We develop an interface-modeling framework for quality and resource management that captures configurable working points of hardware and software components in terms of functionality, resource usage and provision, and quality indicators such as performance and energy consumption. We base these aspects on partially-ordered sets to capture quality levels, budget sizes, and functional compatibility. This makes the framework widely applicable and domain independent (although we aim for embedded and cyber-physical systems). The framework paves the way for dynamic (re-)configuration and multi-objective optimization of component-based systems for quality- and resource-management purposes.
ML4Chem is an open-source machine learning library for chemistry and materials science. It provides an extendable platform to develop and deploy machine learning models and pipelines and is targeted to the non-expert and expert users. ML4Chem follows user-experience design and offers the needed tools to go from data preparation to inference. Here we introduce its atomistic module for the implementation, deployment, and reproducibility of atom-centered models. This module is composed of six core building blocks: data, featurization, models, model optimization, inference, and visualization. We present their functionality and easiness of use with demonstrations utilizing neural networks and kernel ridge regression algorithms.
Cellular networks represent a critical infrastructure and their security is thus crucial. 5G - the latest generation of cellular networks - combines different technologies to increase capacity, reduce latency, and save energy. Due to its complexity and scale, however, ensuring its security is extremely challenging. In this white paper, we outline recent approaches supporting systematic analyses of 4G LTE and 5G protocols and their related defenses and introduce an initial security and privacy roadmap, covering different research challenges, including formal and comprehensive analyses of cellular protocols as defined by the standardization groups, verification of the software implementing the protocols, the design of robust defenses, and application and device security.
This paper presents a framework for monitoring human and robot conditions in human multi-robot interactions. The proposed framework consists of four modules: 1) human and robot conditions monitoring interface, 2) synchronization time filter, 3) data feature extraction interface, and 4) condition monitoring interface. The framework is based on Robot Operating System (ROS), and it supports physiological and behavioral sensors and devices and robot systems, as well as custom programs. Furthermore, it allows synchronizing the monitoring conditions and sharing them simultaneously. In order to validate the proposed framework, we present experiment results and analysis obtained from the user study where 30 human subjects participated and simulated robot experiments.
Combining new insights from both bibliometric and text mining analyses, with prior relevant research conversations on circular economy (CE) and industrial ecology (IE), this paper aims to clarify the recent development trends and relations between these concepts, including their representations and applications. On this basis, discussions are made and recommendations provided on how CE and IE approaches, tools, and indicators can complement each other to enable and catalyze a more circular and sustainable development, by supporting sustainable policy-making and monitoring sound CE strategies in industrial practices.
This chapter introduces OpenStreetMap - a crowd-sourced, worldwide mapping project and geospatial data repository - to illustrate its usefulness in quickly and easily analyzing and visualizing planning and design outcomes in the built environment. It demonstrates the OSMnx toolkit for automatically downloading, modeling, analyzing, and visualizing spatial big data from OpenStreetMap. We explore patterns and configurations in street networks and buildings around the world computationally through visualization methods - including figure-ground diagrams and polar histograms - that help compress urban complexity into comprehensible artifacts that reflect the human experience of the built environment. Ubiquitous urban data and computation can open up new urban form analyses from both quantitative and qualitative perspectives.
Joint analysis of radial velocities and position measurements of five hierarchical stellar systems is undertaken to determine elements of their inner and outer orbits and, whenever possible, their mutual inclinations. The inner and outer periods are 12.9 and 345 yr for HD 12376 (ADS 1613), 1.14 and ~1500 yr for HD 19971 (ADS 2390), 8.3 and 475 yr for HD 89795 (ADS 7338), 1.11 and 40 yr for HD 152027, 0.69 and 7.4 yr for HD 190412. The latter system with its co-planar and quasi-circular orbits belongs to the family of compact planetary-like hierarchies, while the orbits in HD 12376 have mutual inclination of 131 degrees.
In this paper, we study the alternating Euler $T$-sums and $\S$-sums, which are infinite series involving (alternating) odd harmonic numbers, and have similar forms and close relations to the Dirichlet beta functions. By using the method of residue computations, we establish the explicit formulas for the (alternating) linear and quadratic Euler $T$-sums and $\S$-sums, from which, the parity theorems of Hoffman's double and triple $t$-values and Kaneko-Tsumura's double and triple $T$-values are further obtained. As supplements, we also show that the linear $T$-sums and $\S$-sums are expressible in terms of colored multiple zeta values. Some interesting consequences and illustrative examples are presented.
Background   SAMtools and BCFtools are widely used programs for processing and analysing high-throughput sequencing data.   Findings   The first version appeared online twelve years ago and has been maintained and further developed ever since, with many new features and improvements added over the years. The SAMtools and BCFtools packages represent a unique collection of tools that have been used in numerous other software projects and countless genomic pipelines.   Conclusion   Both SAMtools and BCFtools are freely available on GitHub under the permissive MIT licence, free for both non-commercial and commercial use. Both packages have been installed over a million times via Bioconda. The source code and documentation are available from http://www.htslib.org.
The Art and Science Interaction Lab (ASIL) is a unique, highly flexible and modular interaction science research facility to effectively bring, analyse and test experiences and interactions in mixed virtual/augmented contexts as well as to conduct research on next-gen immersive technologies. It brings together the expertise and creativity of engineers, performers, designers and scientists creating solutions and experiences shaping the lives of people. The lab is equipped with state-of-the-art visual, auditory and user-tracking equipment, fully synchronized and connected to a central backend. This synchronization allows for highly accurate multi-sensor measurements and analysis.
We provide a self-consistent extension of the Lorentz reciprocity theorem and the Poynting theorem for media possessing electric and magnetic dipolar and quadrupolar responses related to electric and magnetic fields and field gradients. Using these two theorems, we respectively deduce the conditions of reciprocity and gainlessness and losslessness that apply to the various tensors mediating the interactions of these multipole moments and the associated fields and field gradients. We expect that these conditions will play an essential role in developing advanced metamaterial modeling techniques that include quadrupolar and spatially dispersive responses.
Research software is essential to modern research, but it requires ongoing human effort to sustain: to continually adapt to changes in dependencies, to fix bugs, and to add new features. Software sustainability institutes, amongst others, develop, maintain, and disseminate best practices for research software sustainability, and build community around them. These practices can both reduce the amount of effort that is needed and create an environment where the effort is appreciated and rewarded. The UK SSI is such an institute, and the US URSSI and the Australian AuSSI are planning to become institutes, and this extended abstract discusses them and the strengths and weaknesses of this approach.
I present a set of remarks related to joint works \cite{paper1},\cite{paper2},\cite{paper3},\cite{MMNO}. These are remarks about polynomials solutions and vertex operators, eigenproblem for polynomials and a remark related to the the conjecture of Alexandrov and Mironov, Morozov about the ratios of the projective Schur functions. New results on the bilinear relations between characters of the symmetric and of the Sergeev group and on bilinear relations between skew Schur and projective Schur functions and also between shifted Schur and projective Schur functions are added. Certain new matrix models are considered and a comment on Mironov-Morozov-Natanzon cut-and-join relation is added.
Trade and investment between developing regions such as China and Latin America (LATAM) are growing prominently. However, insights on crucial factors such as innovation in business and management (iBM) about both regions have not been scrutinized. This study presents the research output, impact, and structure of iBM research published about China and LATAM in a comparative framework using Google Scholar, Dimensions, and Microsoft Academic. Findings showed i) that iBM topics of both regions were framed within research and development management, and technological development topics, ii) significant differences in output and impact between regions, and iii) the same case for platforms.
We establish the quaternionic and octonionic analogs of the classical Riemann surfaces of the complex logarithm and $n$-th root function, and give a unifying definition of such functions in the quaternionic and octonionic settings. The construction of these manifolds has nice peculiarities and the scrutiny of Bernhard Riemann approach to Riemann surfaces, mainly based on conformality, leads to the definition of slice conformal or slice isothermal parameterization of a Riemann $4$-manifold and $8$-manifold. These new classes of manifolds include slice regular quaternionic and octonionic curves, graphs of slice regular functions, the $4$ and $8$ dimensional spheres, the helicoidal and catenoidal $4$ and $8$ dimensional manifolds.
Bimonoidal categories are categorical analogues of rings without additive inverses. They have been actively studied in category theory, homotopy theory, and algebraic $K$-theory since around 1970. There is an abundance of new applications and questions of bimonoidal categories in mathematics and other sciences. This work provides a unified treatment of bimonoidal and higher ring-like categories, their connection with algebraic $K$-theory and homotopy theory, and applications to quantum groups and topological quantum computation. With ample background material, extensive coverage, detailed presentation of both well-known and new theorems, and a list of open questions, this work is a user friendly resource for beginners and experts alike.
When one splits spacetime into space plus time, the Weyl curvature tensor (which equals the Riemann tensor in vacuum) splits into two spatial, symmetric, traceless tensors: the tidal field $E$, which produces tidal forces, and the frame-drag field $B$, which produces differential frame dragging. In recent papers, we and colleagues have introduced ways to visualize these two fields: tidal tendex lines (integral curves of the three eigenvector fields of $E$) and their tendicities (eigenvalues of these eigenvector fields); and the corresponding entities for the frame-drag field: frame-drag vortex lines and their vorticities. These entities fully characterize the vacuum Riemann tensor. In this paper, we compute and depict the tendex and vortex lines, and their tendicities and vorticities, outside the horizons of stationary (Schwarzschild and Kerr) black holes; and we introduce and depict the black holes' horizon tendicity and vorticity (the normal-normal components of $E$ and $B$ on the horizon). For Schwarzschild and Kerr black holes, the horizon tendicity is proportional to the horizon's intrinsic scalar curvature, and the horizon vorticity is proportional to an extrinsic scalar curvature. We show that, for horizon-penetrating time slices, all these entities ($E$, $B$, the tendex lines and vortex lines, the lines' tendicities and vorticities, and the horizon tendicities and vorticities) are affected only weakly by changes of slicing and changes of spatial coordinates, within those slicing and coordinate choices that are commonly used for black holes. [Abstract is abbreviated.]
Animals play a profoundly important and intricate role in our lives today. Dogs have been human companions for thousands of years, but they now work closely with us to assist the disabled, and in combat and search and rescue situations. Farm animals are a critical part of the global food supply chain, and there is increasing consumer interest in organically fed and humanely raised livestock, and how it impacts our health and environmental footprint. Wild animals are threatened with extinction by human induced factors, and shrinking and compromised habitat. This review sets the goal to systematically survey the existing literature in smart computing and sensing technologies for domestic, farm and wild animal welfare. We use the notion of \emph{animal welfare} in broad terms, to review the technologies for assessing whether animals are healthy, free of pain and suffering, and also positively stimulated in their environment. Also the notion of \emph{smart computing and sensing} is used in broad terms, to refer to computing and sensing systems that are not isolated but interconnected with communication networks, and capable of remote data collection, processing, exchange and analysis. We review smart technologies for domestic animals, indoor and outdoor animal farming, as well as animals in the wild and zoos. The findings of this review are expected to motivate future research and contribute to data, information and communication management as well as policy for animal welfare.
We perform a systematic analysis on the large-scale taxi trip data to uncover urban mobility and city dynamics in multimodal urban transportation environments. As a case study, we use the taxi origin-destination trip data and some additional data sources in Washington DC area. We first study basic characteristics of taxi trips, then focus on five important aspects. Three of them concern urban mobility, which are respectively mobility and cost including effect of traffic congestion, trip safety, and multimodal connectivity; the other two pertain to city dynamics, which are respectively transportation resilience and the relation between trip patterns and land use. For these aspects, we use appropriate statistical methods and geographic techniques to mine patterns and characteristics from taxi trip data for better understanding qualitative and quantitative impacts of the inputs from key stakeholders on available measures of effectiveness on urban mobility and city dynamics, where key stakeholders include road users, system operators, and city. Finally, we briefly summarize our findings and discuss some critical roles and implications of the uncovered patterns and characteristics from the relation between taxi system and key stakeholders. The results can support road users by providing evidence-based information of trip cost, mobility, safety, multimodal connectivity and transportation resilience, can assist taxi drivers and operators to deliver transportation services in a higher quality of mobility, safety and operational efficiency, and can also help city planners and policy makers to transform multimodal transportation and to manage urban resources in a more effective and better way.
We investigate classical and quantum geometric information flow theories (respectively, GIFs and QGIFs) when the geometric flow evolution and field equations for nonholonomic Einstein systems, NES, are derived from Perelman-Lyapunov type entropic type functionals. In this work, the term NES encodes models of gravitational and matter fields interactions and their geometric flow evolution subjected to nonholonomic (equivalently, non-integrable, anholonomic) constraints. There are used canonical geometric variables which allow a general decoupling and integration of systems of nonlinear partial differential equations describing GIFs and QGIFs and (for self-similar geometric flows) Ricci soliton type configurations. Our approach is different from the methods and constructions elaborated for special classes of solutions characterized by area--hypersurface entropy, related holographic and dual gauge--gravity models, and conformal field theories, involving generalizations of the Bekenstein--Hawking entropy and black hole thermodynamics. We formulate the theory of QGIFs which in certain quasi-classical limits encodes GIFs and models with flow evolution of NES. There are analysed the most important properties (inequalities) for NES and defined and computed QGIF versions of the von Neumann, relative and conditional entropy; mutual information, (modified) entanglement and R\'{e}nyi entropy. We construct explicit examples of generic off-diagonal exact and parametric solutions describing stationary solitonic gravitational hierarchies and deformations of black hole configurations. Finally, we show how Perelman's entropy and geometric thermodynamic values, and extensions to GIF and QGIF models can be computed for various new classes of exact solutions which can not be described following the Bekenstein-Hawking approach.
Use of commercial growth chambers for study of biological processes involved in biomass growth and production pose certain limitations on the nature of studies that can be performed in them. Optimization of biomass rearing and production process requires quantitative study of environment influences on the organism and eventually the products and byproducts consumed and produced. This work presents a low cost modular system designed to facilitate quantitative study of growth processes and resource exchanges in organisms such as plants, fungi and insect larvae. The proposed system constitutes of modular units each performing a specific function. A novel compact thermoelectric cooler based unit is designed for conditioning the air. Sensor cluster for measuring gas concentrations, air properties (temperature, humidity, pressure), and growing medium properties is implemented and tested. An actuator cluster for resource exchange and a wiring and control scheme for light spectrum adjustment is proposed. A three tier hierarchical software framework consisting of an open-source cloud platform for data aggregation and user interaction, embedded firmware for microcontroller, and an application development framework for test automation and experiment regime design is developed and presented. A series of experiments and tests were performed using the designed hardware and software to evaluate its capabilities and limitations. This controlled environment was used to study the photosynthesis and its dependency on temperature and light intensity in Ocimum basilicum. In a second experiment, evolution of metabolic activity of Hermetia illucens larvae over its larval phase was studied and the metabolic products and byproducts were quantitatively measured.
We study direct and indirect magnetoexcitons in Rydberg states in monolayers and double-layer heterostructures of Xenes (silicene, germanene, and stanene) in external parallel electric and magnetic fields, applied perpendicular to the monolayer and heterostructure. We calculate binding energies of magnetoexcitons for the Rydberg states 1$s$, 2$s$, 3$s$, and 4$s$, by numerical integration of the Schr\"{o}dinger equation using the Rytova-Keldysh potential for direct magnetoexciton and both the Rytova-Keldysh and Coulomb potentials for indirect excitons. Latter allows understanding a role of screening in Xenes. In the external perpendicular electric field, the buckled structure of the Xene monolayers leads to appearance of potential difference between sublattices allowing to tune electron and hole masses and, therefore, the binding energies and diamagnetic coefficients (DMCs) of magnetoexcitons. We report the energy contribution from electric and magnetic fields to the binding energies and DMCs. The tunability of the energy contribution of direct and indirect magnetoexcitons by electric and magnetic fields is demonstrated. It is also shown that DMCs of direct excitons can be tuned by the electric field, and the DMCs of indirect magnetoexcitons can be tuned by the electric field and manipulated by the number of h-BN layers. Therefore, these allowing the possibility of electronic devices design that can be controlled by external electric and magnetic fields and the number of h-BN layers. The calculations of the binding energies and DMCs of magnetoexcitons in Xenes monolayers and heterostructures are novel and can be compared with the experimental results when they will be available.
We are constructing a model which aims to reproduce observational data of many kinds related to cosmic-ray origin and propagation: direct measurements of nuclei, antiprotons, electrons and positrons, gamma-rays, and synchrotron radiation. These data provide many independent constraints on any model. Propagation of primary and secondary nucleons, primary and secondary electrons and positrons are calculated self-consistently. Fragmentation and energy losses are computed using realistic distributions for the interstellar gas and radiation fields, and diffusive reacceleration is also incorporated. The models are adjusted to agree with the observed cosmic-ray B/C and 10Be/9Be ratios.   Our main results include evaluation of diffusion/convection and reacceleration models, estimates of the halo size, calculations of the interstellar positron and antiproton spectra, evaluation of alternative hypotheses of hard nucleon and hard electron interstellar spectra, and computation of the Galactic diffuse gamma-ray emission.
A historical review of our understanding of bulges is first presented, highlighting similarities and differences between bulges and ellipticals. Then, some topics of current interest are reviewed, bypassing stellar population questions and focusing on structural and dynamical issues relating bulges and disks. The topics are: i) the fundamental plane; ii) the evidence for two classes of bulges, R^1/4 and exponential, and its significance for bulge formation; iii) the three-dimensional structure of bulges, in particular the relation between boxy/peanut-shaped bulges and bars; iv) the nuclear properties of bulges, and their possible effects on bulge dynamics and secular evolution; and v) the large-scale mass distribution and evidence for dark matter in bulges. To conclude, new prospects offered by wide-field integral-field spectroscopy and other instrument developments (space and ground-based) are discussed.
It is shown how the static and dynamic electromagnetic properties can be calculated for thin flat superconducting films of any shape and size, also multiply connected as used for SQUIDs, and for any value of the effective magnetic London penetration depth Lambda. As examples, the distributions of sheet current and magnetic field are obtained for rectangular and circular films without and with slits and holes, in response to an applied perpendicular magnetic field and to magnetic vortices moving in the film. The self energy and interaction of vortices with each other and with an applied magnetic field and/or transport current are given. Due to the long ranging magnetic stray field, these energies depend on the size and shape of the film and on the vortex position even in large films, in contrast to the situation in large bulk superconductors. The focussing of magnetic flux into the central hole of square films without and with a radial slit is compared.
The book contains a collection of works on Riemann-Cartan and metric-affine manifolds provided with nonlinear connection structure and on generalized Finsler-Lagrange and Cartan-Hamilton geometries and Clifford structures modelled on such manifolds. The choice of material presented has evolved from various applications in modern gravity and geometric mechanics and certain generalizations to noncommutative Riemann-Finsler geometry.   The authors develop and use the method of anholonomic frames with associated nonlinear connection structure and apply it to a number of concrete problems: constructing of generic off-diagonal exact solutions, in general, with nontrivial torsion and nonmetricity, possessing noncommutative symmetries and describing black ellipsoid/torus configurations, locally anisotropic wormholes, gravitational solitons and warped factors and investigation of stability of such solutions; classification of Lagrange/ Finsler -- affine spaces; definition of nonholonomic Dirac operators and their applications in commutative and noncommutative Finsler geometry.
Contents: 1. Can MPP Together with Weinberg-Salam Higgs Provide Cosmological Inflation? (D.L. Bennett and H.B. Nielsen) 2. Conserved Charges in 3d Gravity With Torsion (M. Blagojevic and B. Cvetkovic) 3. Mass Matrices of Quarks and Leptons in the Approach Unifying Spins and Charges (A. Borstnik Bracic and N.S. Mankoc Borstnik) 4. Dark Matter From Encapsulated Atoms (C.D. Froggatt and H.B. Nielsen) 5. Dirac Sea for Bosons Also and SUSY for Single Particles (Y. Habara, H.B. Nielsen and M. Ninomiya) 6. Searching for Boundary Conditions in Kaluza-Klein-like Theories (D. Lukman, N.S. Mankoc Borstnik and H. B. Nielsen) 7. Second Quantization of Spinors and Clifford Algebra Objects (N.S. Mankoc Borstnik and H. B. Nielsen) 8. Are there Interesting Problems That Could Increase Understanding of Physics and Mathematics? (R. Mirman) 9. Noncommutative Nonsingular Black Holes (P. Nicolini) 10. Compactified Time and Likely Entropy -- World Inside Time Machine: Closed Time-like Curve (H.B. Nielsen and M. Ninomiya) + Astri Kleppe's Song.
We present particular and unique solutions of singlet and non-singlet Dokshitzer-Gribov-Lipatov-Altarelli-Parisi (DGLAP) evolution equations in leading order (LO) and next-to-leading order (NLO) and gluon, sea and valence quark Dokshitzer-Gribov-Lipatov-Altarelli-Parisi (DGLAP) evolution equations in leading order (LO) by applying Taylor expansion method at small-x. We obtain t-evolutions of deuteron, proton, neutron, difference and ratio of proton and neutron, gluon, light sea and valence quark structure functions and x-evolution of deuteron,gluon and light sea quark structure functions at small-x from DGLAP evolution equations. The results of tevolutions are compared with HERA and NMC low-x low-Q2 data and x-evolutions are compared with NMC low-x low-Q2 data and recent global parameterization. And also we compare our results of t-evolution of proton structure functions with a recent global parameterization.
Exact calculations of collective excitations and charge/spin (pseudo)gaps in an ensemble of bipartite and nonbipartite clusters yield level crossing degeneracies, spin-charge separation, condensation and recombination of electron charge and spin, driven by interaction strength, inter-site couplings and temperature. Near crossing degeneracies, the electron configurations of the lowest energies control the physics of electronic pairing, phase separation and magnetic transitions. Rigorous conditions are found for the smooth and dramatic phase transitions with competing stable and unstable inhomogeneities. Condensation of electron charge and spin degrees at various temperatures offers a new mechanism of pairing and a possible route to superconductivity in inhomogeneous systems, different from the BCS scenario. Small bipartite and frustrated clusters exhibit charge and spin inhomogeneities in many respects typical for nano and heterostructured materials. The calculated phase diagrams in various geometries may be linked to atomic scale experiments in high T$_c$ cuprates, manganites and other concentrated transition metal oxides.
This Journal of Informetrics special issue aims to improve our understanding of the structure and dynamics of science by reviewing and advancing existing conceptualizations and models of scholarly activity. Several of these conceptualizations and models have visual manifestations supporting the combination and comparison of theories and approaches developed in different disciplines of science. Subsequently, we discuss challenges towards a theoretically grounded and practically useful science of science and provide a brief chronological review of relevant work. Then, we exemplarily present three conceptualizations of science that attempt to provide frameworks for the comparison and combination of existing approaches, theories, laws, and measurements. Finally, we discuss the contributions of and interlinkages among the eight papers included in this issue. Each paper makes a unique contribution towards conceptualizations and models of science and roots this contribution in a review and comparison with existing work.
Schur multipliers were introduced by Schur in the early 20th century and have since then found a considerable number of applications in Analysis and enjoyed an intensive development. Apart from the beauty of the subject in itself, sources of interest in them were connections with Perturbation Theory, Harmonic Analysis, the Theory of Operator Integrals and others. Advances in the quantisation of Schur multipliers were recently made by Kissin and Shulman. The aim of the present article is to summarise a part of the ideas and results in the theory of Schur and operator multipliers. We start with the classical Schur multipliers defined by Schur and their characterisation by Grothendieck, and make our way through measurable multipliers studied by Peller and Spronk, operator multipliers defined by Kissin and Shulman and, finally, multidimensional Schur and operator multipliers developed by Juschenko and the authors. We point out connections of the area with Harmonic Analysis and the Theory of Operator Integrals.
In this article we examine the adjacency and Laplacian matrices and their eigenvalues and energies of the general product (non-complete extended $p$-sum, or NEPS) of signed graphs. We express the adjacency matrix of the product in terms of the Kronecker matrix product and the eigenvalues and energy of the product in terms of those of the factor signed graphs. For the Cartesian product we characterize balance and compute expressions for the Laplacian eigenvalues and Laplacian energy. We give exact results for those signed planar, cylindrical and toroidal grids which are Cartesian products of signed paths and cycles.   We also treat the eigenvalues and energy of the line graphs of signed graphs, and the Laplacian eigenvalues and Laplacian energy in the regular case, with application to the line graphs of signed grids that are Cartesian products and to the line graphs of all-positive and all-negative complete graphs.
A proper merging of two disjoint quasi-ordered sets $P$ and $Q$ is a quasi-order on the union of $P$ and $Q$ such that the restriction to $P$ and $Q$ yields the original quasi-order again and such that no elements of $P$ and $Q$ are identified. In this article, we consider the cases where $P$ and $Q$ are chains, where $P$ and $Q$ are antichains, and where $P$ is an antichain and $Q$ is a chain. We give formulas that determine the number of proper mergings in all three cases, and introduce two new bijections from proper mergings of two chains to plane partitions and from proper mergings of an antichain and a chain to monotone colorings of complete bipartite digraphs. Additionally, we use these bijections to count the Galois connections between two chains, and between a chain and a Boolean lattice respectively.
The unique plasma-specific features and physical phenomena in the organization of nanoscale solid-state systems in a broad range of elemental composition, structure, and dimensionality are critically reviewed. These effects lead to the possibility to localize and control energy and matter at nanoscales and to produce self-organized nano-solids with highly unusual and superior properties. A unifying conceptual framework based on the control of production, transport, and self-organization of precursor species is introduced and a variety of plasma-specific non-equilibrium and kinetics-driven phenomena across the many temporal and spatial scales is explained. When the plasma is localized to micrometer and nanometer dimensions, new emergent phenomena arise. The examples range from semiconducting quantum dots and nanowires, chirality control of single-walled carbon nanotubes, ultra-fine manipulation of graphenes, nano-diamond, and organic matter, to nano-plasma effects and nano-plasmas of different states of matter.
The numerical range of holomorphic mappings arises in many aspects of nonlinear analysis, finite and infinite dimensional holomorphy, and complex dynamical systems. In particular, this notion plays a crucial role in establishing exponential and product formulas for semigroups of holomorphic mappings, the study of flow invariance and range conditions, geometric function theory in finite and infinite dimensional Banach spaces, and in the study of complete and semi-complete vector fields and their applications to starlike and spirallike mappings, and to Bloch (univalence) radii for locally biholomorphic mappings.   In the present paper we establish lower and upper bounds for the numerical range of holomorphic mappings in Banach spaces. In addition, we study and discuss some geometric and quantitative analytic aspects of fixed point theory, nonlinear resolvents of holomorphic mappings, Bloch radii, as well as radii of starlikeness and spirallikeness.
The solar observatory Einstein Tower (Einsteinturm) at the Telegrafenberg in Potsdam is both a landmark of modern architecture and an important place for solar physics. Originally built for high-resolution spectroscopy and measuring the gravitational redshift, research shifted over the years to understanding the active Sun and its magnetic field. Nowadays, telescope and spectrographs are used for research and development, i.e., testing instruments and in particular polarization optics for advanced instrumentation deployed at major European and international astronomical and solar telescopes. In addition, the Einstein Tower is used for educating and training of the next generation astrophysicists as well as for education and public outreach activities directed at the general public. This article comments on the observatory's unique architecture and the challenges of maintaining and conserving the building. It describes in detail the characteristics of telescope, spectrographs, and imagers; it portrays some of the research and development activities.
We review the use of graphene to develop reconfigurable, miniaturized, and efficient terahertz (THz) antennas and associated feeding networks, and attempt to identify current research trends and mid- and long-term challenges and prospects. We first discuss the state of the art in resonant, leaky-wave and reflectarray antennas, providing a critical assessment of their performance, limitations, and main challenges that remain to be addressed. Next, we examine different integrated feeding networks, including components such as switches, filters, and phase shifters, and we clarify the impact that graphene's intrinsic spatial dispersion may have in their performance. Our outlook clearly describes how graphene can bring exotic functionalities to all these devices, including quasi real-time reconfiguration capabilities and magnet-less non-reciprocal responses. Some exciting applications of THz antennas are then presented and discussed, including transceivers, biosensors, and first experimental realizations of detectors and modulators. We conclude by outlining our vision for the promising future of graphene-based THz antennas.
A prerequisite for integrated land and water resources management (ILWRM) is a holistic river basin assessment. The latter requires information and data from different scientific disciplines but also appropriate data management systems to store and manage historical and real time data, set up protocols that facilitate data and information access and sharing among different stakeholders, and triggering further collaboration among different institutions in support of watershed-based assessment, management and planning. In West Africa in general and especially in the transboundary Volta River basin where different environmental data are collected and managed by different agencies in different countries and also where data access and dissemination are very challenging and difficult tasks, comprehensive river basin information systems are required. This paper presents the Oti River Basin Information System (OtiRBIS), a web-based data storage, management andanalysis platform that addresses these needs and facilitates ILWRM implementation in the Kara river basin.
During 2008-2015, twenty-two introductory workshops on graph and geometric algorithms were organized for teachers and students (undergraduate, post-graduate and doctoral) of engineering colleges and universities at different states and union territories of India. The lectures were meant to provide exposure to the field of graph and geometric algorithms and to motivate the participants towards research. Fifty-eight professors from TIFR, IITs, IISc, IMSc, CMI, ISI Kolkata, and other institutes and universities delivered invited lectures on different topics in the design and analysis of algorithms, discrete applied mathematics, computer graphics, computer vision, and robotics. The first four workshops were funded by TIFR, BRNS and IIT Kharagpur, and the remaining workshops were funded by the NBHM. In this paper, we present the salient features of these workshops, and state our observations on the national impact of these workshops.
Cloud solutions are increasingly used for a plethora of purposes, including solving memory-intensive and computation-intensive problems. Ensuring the reliability, availability, scalability, and security of cloud solutions, as networked distributed systems with properties such as dynamic reallocation of resources, is a challenging problem that requires rigorous modeling, analysis, and verification tools. Such tools can be devised using the techniques provided by the formal methods community. On the other hand, many formal analysis and verification tools are memory-intensive and computation-intensive solutions, which can benefit from the cloud technology.   The goal of the iFMCloud workshop is to identify and better understand challenges of using formal and semi-formal methods for modeling and verification of Cloud-based systems and computer and communication networks, as well as challenges and opportunities in providing formal analysis and verification as services on the Cloud. We aim to reach these goals by bringing together researchers and practitioners from these, and other related fields.
This paper describes the design and implementation of a comprehensive OCaml interface to the Sundials library of numeric solvers for ordinary differential equations, differential algebraic equations, and non-linear equations. The interface provides a convenient and memory-safe alternative to using Sundials directly from C and facilitates application development by integrating with higher-level language features, like garbage-collected memory management, algebraic data types, and exceptions. Our benchmark results suggest that the interface overhead is acceptable: the standard examples are rarely twice as slow in OCaml than in C, and often less than 50% slower. The challenges in interfacing with Sundials are to efficiently and safely share data structures between OCaml and C, to support multiple implementations of vector operations and linear solvers through a common interface, and to manage calls and error signalling to and from OCaml. We explain how we overcame these difficulties using a combination of standard techniques such as phantom types and polymorphic variants, and carefully crafted data representations.
We are developing the Virtual Experiences (Vx)Lab, a research and research training infrastructure and capability platform for global collaboration. VxLab comprises labs with visualisation capabilities, including underpinning networking to global points of presence, videoconferencing and high-performance computation, simulation and rendering, and sensors and actuators such as robotic instruments locally and in connected remote labs. VxLab has been used for industry projects in industrial automation, experimental research in cloud deployment, workshops and remote capability demonstrations, teaching advanced-level courses in games development, and student software engineering projects. Our goal is for resources to become a "catalyst" for IT-driven research results both within the university and with external industry partners. Use cases include: multi-disciplinary collaboration, prototyping and troubleshooting requiring multiple viewpoints and architectures, dashboards and decision support for global remote planning and operations.
Improving the health of the nation's population and increasing the capabilities of the US healthcare system to support diagnosis, treatment, and prevention of disease is a critical national and societal priority. In the past decade, tremendous advances in expanding computing capabilities--sensors, data analytics, networks, advanced imaging, and cyber-physical systems--have, and will continue to, enhance healthcare and health research, with resulting improvements in health and wellness. However, the cost and complexity of healthcare continues to rise alongside the impact of poor health on productivity and quality of life. What is lacking are transformative capabilities that address significant health and healthcare trends: the growing demands and costs of chronic disease, the greater responsibility placed on patients and informal caregivers, and the increasing complexity of health challenges in the US, including mental health, that are deeply rooted in a person's social and environmental context.
Most human-robot interfaces, such as joysticks and keyboards, require training and constant cognitive effort and provide a limited degree of awareness of the robots state and its environment. Embodied interactions, instead of interfaces, could bridge the gap between humans and robots, allowing humans to naturally perceive and act through a distal robotic body. Establishing an embodied interaction and mapping human movements and a non-anthropomorphic robot is particularly challenging. In this paper, we describe a natural and immersive embodied interaction that allows users to control and experience drone flight with their own bodies. The setup uses a commercial flight simulator that tracks hand movements and provides haptic and visual feedback. The paper discusses how to integrate the simulator with a real drone, how to map body movement with drone motion, and how the resulting embodied interaction provides a more natural and immersive flight experience to unskilled users with respect to a conventional RC remote controller.
Tables are common and important in scientific documents, yet most text-based document search systems do not capture structures and semantics specific to tables. How to bridge different types of mismatch between keywords queries and scientific tables and what influences ranking quality needs to be carefully investigated. This paper considers the structure of tables and gives different emphasis to table components. On the query side, thanks to external knowledge such as knowledge bases and ontologies, key concepts are extracted and used to build structured queries, and target quantity types are identified and used to expand original queries. A probabilistic framework is proposed to incorporate structural and semantic information from both query and table sides. We also construct and release TableArXiv, a high quality dataset with 105 queries and corresponding relevance judgements for scientific table search. Experiments demonstrate significantly higher accuracy overall and at the top of the rankings than several baseline methods.
Availability of reliable atomic and molecular opacity tables is essential in a wide variety of astronomical modeling: the solar and stellar interiors, stellar and planetary atmospheres, stellar evolution, pulsating stars, and protoplanetary disks, to name a few. With the advancement of powerful research techniques such as helio-seismology and asteroseismology, solar neutrino-flux measurements, exoplanet survey satellites, three-dimensional hydrodynamic atmospheric simulations (including non-LTE and granulation effects), high-performance computing of atomic and molecular data, and innovative plasma experiments the accuracy and completeness of opacity tables is being taken to an unprecedented level. The goal of the second Workshop on Astrophysical Opacities was to gather opacity data producers and consumers from both the atomic and molecular sectors to contribute to solving outstanding problems and to develop more effective and integrated interfaces. In this review we attempt to summa- rize the discussion at the workshop and propose future directions for opacity research.
Technological innovation is intimately related to knowledge creation and recombination. In this work we introduce a combined statistical and network-based approach to study collaboration in scientific authorship. We apply it to characterize recent research efforts in renewable energy technology and its intersections with the domains of nanoscience and nanotechnology with focus on materials, and electrical engineering and computer science in Greece and its broader European and international environment as a case study. Using our methods we attempt to illuminate the processes which underlie knowledge creation and diversification in these research networks: a (positive) relationship between expenditure on research and development and the extent and diversity of team-based research at the intersections of the three domains is established. Our specific findings collectively provide insights into the collaboration structure and evolution of energy-related research activity in Greece, while our methodology can be used for evidence-based design, monitoring, and evaluation of interdisciplinary research programs.
We present a number of open problems within general relativity. After a brief introduction to some technical mathematical issues and the famous singularity theorems, we discuss the cosmic censorship hypothesis and the Penrose inequality, the uniqueness of black hole solutions and the stability of Kerr spacetime and the final state conjecture, critical phenomena and the Einstein-Yang--Mills equations, and a number of other problems in classical general relativity. We then broaden the scope and discuss some mathematical problems motivated by quantum gravity, including AdS/CFT correspondence and problems in higher dimensions and, in particular, the instability of anti-de Sitter spacetime, and in cosmology, including the cosmological constant problem and dark energy, the stability of de Sitter spacetime and cosmological singularities and spikes. Finally, we briefly discuss some problems in numerical relativity and relativistic astrophysics.
We identify emerging frontiers in clinical and basic research of melanocyte biology and its associated biomedical disciplines. We describe challenges and opportunities in clinical and basic research of normal and diseased melanocytes that impact current approaches to research in melanoma and the dermatological sciences. We focus on four themes: (1) clinical melanoma research, (2) basic melanoma research, (3) clinical dermatology, and (4) basic pigment cell research, with the goal of outlining current highlights, challenges, and frontiers associated with pigmentation and melanocyte biology. Significantly, this document encapsulates important advances in melanocyte and melanoma research including emerging frontiers in melanoma immunotherapy, medical and surgical oncology, dermatology, vitiligo, albinism, genomics and systems biology, epidemiology, pigment biophysics and chemistry, and evolution.
ODE Test Problems (OTP) is an object-oriented MATLAB package offering a broad range of initial value problems which can be used to test numerical methods such as time integration methods and data assimilation (DA) methods. It includes problems that are linear and nonlinear, homogeneous and nonhomogeneous, autonomous and nonautonomous, scalar and high-dimensional, stiff and nonstiff, and chaotic and nonchaotic. Many are real-world problems from fields such as chemistry, astrophysics, meteorology, and electrical engineering. OTP also supports partitioned ODEs for testing IMEX methods, multirate methods, and other multimethods. Functions for plotting solutions and creating movies are available for all problems, and exact solutions are provided when available. OTP is desgined for ease of use-meaning that working with and modifying problems is simple and intuitive.
Motor proteins drive persistent motion and self-organisation of cytoskeletal filaments. However, state-of-the-art microscopy techniques and continuum modelling approaches focus on large length and time scales. Here, we perform component-based computer simulations of polar filaments and molecular motors linking microscopic interactions and activity to self-organisation and dynamics from the two-filament level up to the mesoscopic domain level. Dynamic filament crosslinking and sliding, and excluded-volume interactions promote formation of bundles at small densities, and of active polar nematics at high densities. A buckling-type instability sets the size of polar domains and the density of topological defects. We predict a universal scaling of the active diffusion coefficient and the domain size with activity, and its dependence on parameters like motor concentration and filament persistence length. Our results provide a microscopic understanding of cytoplasmic streaming in cells and help to develop design strategies for novel engineered active materials.
This Perspective surveys the state-of-the-art and future prospects of science and technology employing the nanoconfined light (nanophotonics and nanoplasmonics) in combination with magnetism. We denote this field broadly as nanoscale magnetophotonics. We include a general introduction to the field and describe the emerging magneto-optical effects in magnetoplasmonic and magnetophotonic nanostructures supporting localized and propagating plasmons. Special attention is given to magnetoplasmonic crystals with transverse magnetization and the associated nanophotonic non-reciprocal effects, and to magneto-optical effects in periodic arrays of nanostructures. We give also an overview of the applications of these systems in biological and chemical sensing, as well as in light polarization and phase control. We further review the area of nonlinear magnetophotonics, the semiconductor spin-plasmonics, and the general principles and applications of opto-magnetism and nano-optical ultrafast control of magnetism and spintronics.
While many papers have proposed implementations of ternary adders and ternary multipliers, no comparisons have generally been done with the corresponding binary ones. We compare the implementations of binary and ternary adders and multipliers with the same computing capability according to the basic blocks that are 1-bit and 1-trit adders and 1-bit and 1-trit multipliers. Then we compare the complexity of these basic blocks by using the same CNTFET technology to evaluate the overall complexity of N-bit adders and M-trit adders on one side, and NxN bit multipliers and MxM trits multipliers with M = N/IR (IR = log(3)/log(2) is the information ratio). While ternary adders and multipliers have less input and output connections and use less basic building blocks, the complexity of the ternary building blocks is too high and the ternary adders and multipliers cannot compete with the binary ones.
Chiral condensed matter systems, such as liquid crystals and magnets, exhibit a host of spatially localized topological structures that emerge from the medium's tendency to twist and its competition with confinement and field coupling effects. We show that the strength of perpendicular surface boundary conditions can be used to control the structure and topology of solitonic and other localized field configurations. By combining numerical modeling and three-dimensional imaging of the director field, we reveal structural stability diagrams and inter-transformation of twisted walls and fingers, torons and skyrmions and their crystalline organizations upon changing boundary conditions. Our findings provide a recipe for controllably realizing skyrmions, torons and hybrid solitonic structures possessing features of both of them, which will aid in fundamental explorations and technological uses of such topological solitons. Moreover, we discuss how other material parameters can be used to determine soliton stability, and how similar principles can be systematically applied to other liquid crystal solitons, and solitons in other material systems.
We surveyed and presented the state-of-the-art VC systems, security and privacy architectures and technologies, emphasizing on security and privacy challenges and their solutions for P2P interactions in VSNs towards standardization and deployment. We note that beyond safety applications that have drawn a lot of attention in VC systems, there is significant and rising interest in vehicle-to-vehicle interaction for a range of transportation efficiency and infotainment applications, notably LBS as well as a gamut of services by mobile providers. While this enriches the VC systems and the user experience, security and privacy concerns are also intensified. This is especially so, considering (i) the privacy risk from the exposure of the users to the service providers, and (ii) the security risk from the interaction with malicious or selfish and thus misbehaving users or infrastructure. We showed existing solutions can in fact evolve and address the VSN-specific challenges, and improve or even accelerate the adoption of VSN applications.
The trustworthiness of data science systems in applied and real-world settings emerges from the resolution of specific tensions through situated, pragmatic, and ongoing forms of work. Drawing on research in CSCW, critical data studies, and history and sociology of science, and six months of immersive ethnographic fieldwork with a corporate data science team, we describe four common tensions in applied data science work: (un)equivocal numbers, (counter)intuitive knowledge, (in)credible data, and (in)scrutable models. We show how organizational actors establish and re-negotiate trust under messy and uncertain analytic conditions through practices of skepticism, assessment, and credibility. Highlighting the collaborative and heterogeneous nature of real-world data science, we show how the management of trust in applied corporate data science settings depends not only on pre-processing and quantification, but also on negotiation and translation. We conclude by discussing the implications of our findings for data science research and practice, both within and beyond CSCW.
Development of scientific and engineering software is usually different and could be more challenging than the development of conventional enterprise software. The authors were involved in a technology-transfer project between academia and industry which focused on engineering, development and testing of a software for optimization of pumping energy costs for oil pipelines. Experts with different skillsets (mechanical, power and software engineers) were involved. Given the complex nature of the software (a sophisticated underlying optimization model) and having experts from different fields, there were challenges in various software engineering aspects of the software system (e.g., requirements and testing). We report our observations and experience in addressing those challenges during our technology-transfer project, and aim to add to the existing body of experience and evidence in engineering of scientific and engineering software. We believe that our observations, experience and lessons learnt could be useful for other researchers and practitioners in engineering of other scientific and engineering software systems.
Heat alters colour and crystallinity of teeth by destruction of the organic content and inducing hydroxyapatite crystal growth. The colour and crystallite changes can be quantified using spectrophotometric and x-ray diffraction analyses, however these analyses are not commonly used in combination to evaluate burned dental remains. In this study, thirty-nine teeth were incinerated at 300-1000$^\circ$C for 15 and 30 minutes and then measured using a spectrophotometer and an x-ray diffractometer. Response variables used were lightness, L$^\ast$, and chromaticity a$^\ast$ and b$^\ast$ and luminance (whiteness and yellowness) for colour, and crystal size for crystallinity. Statistical analysis to determine the attribution of these variables revealed yellowness and crystal size were significantly affected by temperature ($p < 0.05$), whilst duration of heat-exposure showed no significant effect. This study suggests the inclusion of both spectrophotometric and x-ray diffraction in investigating thermal-heated teeth is useful to accurately estimate the temperature teeth are exposed to.
The Scalable Systems Laboratory (SSL), part of the IRIS-HEP Software Institute, provides Institute participants and HEP software developers generally with a means to transition their R&D from conceptual toys to testbeds to production-scale prototypes. The SSL enables tooling, infrastructure, and services supporting the innovation of novel analysis and data architectures, development of software elements and tool-chains, reproducible functional and scalability testing of service components, and foundational systems R&D for accelerated services developed by the Institute. The SSL is constructed with a core team having expertise in scale testing and deployment of services across a wide range of cyberinfrastructure. The core team embeds and partners with other areas in the Institute, and with LHC and other HEP development and operations teams as appropriate, to define investigations and required service deployment patterns. We describe the approach and experiences with early application deployments, including analysis platforms and intelligent data delivery systems.
The geometric and algebraic theory of monomial ideals and multigraded modules is initiated over real-exponent polynomial rings and, more generally, monoid algebras for real polyhedral cones. The main results include the generalization of Nakayama's lemma; complete theories of minimal and dense primary, secondary, and irreducible decomposition, including associated and attached faces; socles and tops; minimality and density for downset hulls, upset covers, and fringe presentations; Matlis duality; and geometric analysis of staircases. Modules that are semialgebraic or piecewise-linear (PL) have the relevant property preserved by functorial constructions as well as by minimal primary and secondary decompositions. And when the modules in question are subquotients of the group itself, such as monomial ideals and quotients modulo them, minimal primary and secondary decompositions are canonical, as are irreducible decompositions up to the new real-exponent notion of density.
Deep clustering was applied to unlabeled, automatically detected signals in a coral reef soundscape to distinguish fish pulse calls from segments of whale song. Deep embedded clustering (DEC) learned latent features and formed classification clusters using fixed-length power spectrograms of the signals. Handpicked spectral and temporal features were also extracted and clustered with Gaussian mixture models (GMM) and conventional clustering. DEC, GMM, and conventional clustering were tested on simulated datasets of fish pulse calls (fish) and whale song units (whale) with randomized bandwidth, duration, and SNR. Both GMM and DEC achieved high accuracy and identified clusters with fish, whale, and overlapping fish and whale signals. Conventional clustering methods had low accuracy in scenarios with unequal-sized clusters or overlapping signals. Fish and whale signals recorded near Hawaii in February-March 2020 were clustered with DEC, GMM, and conventional clustering. DEC features demonstrated the highest accuracy of 77.5% on a small, manually labeled dataset for classifying signals into fish and whale clusters.
We report experimental and computational studies of thermal transport properties in hexagonal boron nitride (hBN) encapsulated molybdenum disulfide (MoS2) structure using refined optothermal Raman techniques, and reveal very high interfacial thermal conductance between hBN and MoS2. By studying the Raman shift of hBN and MoS2 in suspended and substrate-supported thin films under varying laser power and temperature, we calibrate lateral (in-plane) thermal conductivity of hBN and MoS2 and the vertical interfacial thermal conductance in the hBN/MoS2/hBN heterostructure as well as the interfaces between heterostructure and substrate. Crucially, we have found that interfacial thermal conductance between hBN and encapsulated MoS2 is 74MW/m2K and 72MW/m2K in supported and suspended films, respectively, which are significantly higher than interfacial thermal conductance between MoS2 and other substrates. Molecular dynamics (MD) computations conducted in parallel have shown consistent results. This work provides clear evidence of significantly efficient heat dissipation in hBN/MoS2/hBN heterostructures and sheds light on building novel hBN encapsulated nanoelectronics with efficient thermal management.
Scientometric analysis of 146 and 59 research articles published in Indian journal of Information Sources and Services (IJISS) and Pakistan Journal of Library and Information Science has been carried out. Seven Volumes of the IJISS containing 14 issues and Seven volumes of PJLIS containing 8 issues from 2011 - 2017 have been taken into consideration for the present study. The number of contributions, authorship pattern & author productivity, average citations, average length of articles, average keywords and collaborative papers has been analyzed. Out of 146 of IJISS contributions, only 39 are single authored and rest by multi authored with degree of collaboration 0.73 and week collaboration among the authors and from 59 contributions of PJLIS only 18 are single authored and rest by multi authored with degree of collaboration 0.69 and week collaboration among the authors. The study revealed that the author productivity is 0.53 (IJISS) and 0.50 (PJLIS) and dominated by the Indian and Pakistani authors.
Although ground robotic autonomy has gained widespread usage in structured and controlled environments, autonomy in unknown and off-road terrain remains a difficult problem. Extreme, off-road, and unstructured environments such as undeveloped wilderness, caves, and rubble pose unique and challenging problems for autonomous navigation. To tackle these problems we propose an approach for assessing traversability and planning a safe, feasible, and fast trajectory in real-time. Our approach, which we name STEP (Stochastic Traversability Evaluation and Planning), relies on: 1) rapid uncertainty-aware mapping and traversability evaluation, 2) tail risk assessment using the Conditional Value-at-Risk (CVaR), and 3) efficient risk and constraint-aware kinodynamic motion planning using sequential quadratic programming-based (SQP) model predictive control (MPC). We analyze our method in simulation and validate its efficacy on wheeled and legged robotic platforms exploring extreme terrains including an abandoned subway and an underground lava tube.
Accurate quantification of safety is essential for the design of autonomous systems. In this paper, we present a methodology to characterize the exact probabilities associated with invariance and recovery in safe control. We consider a stochastic control system where control barrier functions, gradient-based methods, and barrier certificates are used to constrain control actions and validate safety. We derive the probability distributions of the minimum and maximum barrier function values during any time interval and the first entry and exit times to and from any super level sets of the barrier function. These distributions are characterized by deterministic convection-diffusion equations, and the approach used is generalizable to other safe control methods based on barrier functions. These distributions can be used to characterize various quantities associated with invariance and recovery, such as the safety margin, the probability of entering and recovering from safe and unsafe regions, and the mean and tail distributions of failure and recovery times.
With the recent advances of networking technology, connections among people are unprecedentedly enhanced. People with different ideologies and backgrounds interact with each other, and there may exist severe opinion polarization and disagreement in the social network. There have been a lot of reviews on modeling opinion formation. However, less attention has been paid to opinion polarization and disagreement. In this work, we review recent advances in opinion polarization and disagreement and pay attention to how they are evaluated and controlled. In literature, three metrics: polarization, disagreement, and polarization-disagreement index (PDI) are usually adopted, and there is a tradeoff between polarization and disagreement. Different strategies have been proposed in literature which can significantly control opinion polarization and disagreement based on these metrics. This review is of crucial importance to summarize works on opinion polarization and disagreement, and to the better understanding and control of them.
The Regression Discontinuity (RD) design is one of the most widely used non-experimental methods for causal inference and program evaluation. Over the last two decades, statistical and econometric methods for RD analysis have expanded and matured, and there is now a large number of methodological results for RD identification, estimation, inference, and validation. We offer a curated review of this methodological literature organized around the two most popular frameworks for the analysis and interpretation of RD designs: the continuity framework and the local randomization framework. For each framework, we discuss three main areas: (i) designs and parameters, which focuses on different types of RD settings and treatment effects of interest; (ii) estimation and inference, which presents the most popular methods based on local polynomial regression and analysis of experiments, as well as refinements, extensions and other methods; and (iii) validation and falsification, which summarizes an array of mostly empirical approaches to support the validity of RD designs in practice.
We present how to integrate Design Sprints and project-based learning into introductory visualization courses. A design sprint is a unique process based on rapid prototyping and user testing to define goals and validate ideas before starting costly development. The well-defined, interactive, and time-constrained design cycle makes design sprints a promising option for teaching project-based and active-learning-centered courses to increase student engagement and hands-on experience. Over the past five years, we have adjusted the design sprint methodology for teaching a range of visualization courses. We present a detailed guide on incorporating design sprints into large undergraduate and small professional development courses in both online and on-campus settings. Design sprint results, including quantitative and qualitative student feedback, show that design sprints engage students and help practice and apply visualization and design skills. We provide design sprint teaching materials, show examples of student-created work, and discuss limitations and lessons learned.
Contents:   1.Introduction   2. Formation and composition of the solid crust   3. The bottom layers of the crust: exotic nuclear shapes and topologies   4. Crust contribution to stellar mass and moment of inertia   5. Solid cores   6. Deformation, elastic strain and mountains   7. Shape and energy of rotating, partially solid neutron star   8. Oblateness and precession   9. Gravitational radiation from precessing pulsars   10. Gravitational radiation from precessing pulsars and pulsar timing   11. Detectability
We have used the data from the DIRECT project to search for new globular cluster candidates in the M31 and M33 galaxies. We have found 67 new objects in M31 and 35 in M33 and confirmed 38 and 16 previously discovered ones. A $VI$ and $BVI$ photometry has been obtained for all the clusters in M31 and M33 respectively. Luminosity functions have been constructed for the clusters in each galaxy and compared with that of the Milky Way.
Transition wavelengths and rates are given for E1, E2, M1, and M2 transitions between singlet and triplet S, P, D, and F states in heliumlike ions of astrophysical interest: carbon, nitrogen, oxygen, neon, silicon, and argon. All possible transitions between states with n <= 6 are considered. Wave functions and energies are calculated using the relativistic configuration-interaction (CI) method including both Coulomb and Breit interactions. For transitions to the ground state, the present theoretical wavelengths agree to five digits with precise measurements.
The supranova model for gamma-ray bursts, originally proposed by Vietri & Stella (1998), has several unique features that make it attractive for the interpretation of GRBs and their afterglows, and it has emerged as a promising candidate for modeling the evolution and environment of at least some GRB sources. This review summarizes the model and its key observational implications, assesses its strengths and potential weaknesses, and outlines paths for future observational and theoretical work.
We present the results of a Hubble Space Telescope and ground-based optical and near-infrared study to identify progenitors of spirals and ellipticals at z > 1. We identify these systems through photometric and spectroscopic redshifts, deep K-band imaging, stellar mass measurements, and high resolution imaging. The major modes of galaxy formation, including major mergers, minor mergers, and accretion of intergalactic gas, and their relative contributions towards building up the stellar masses of galaxies, can now be directly measured using these data.
Gamma-ray bursts are the most luminous explosions in the Universe, and their origin and mechanism are the focus of intense research and debate. More than three decades after their discovery, and after pioneering breakthroughs from space and ground experiments, their study is entering a new phase with the recently launched Swift satellite. The interplay between these observations and theoretical models of the prompt gamma ray burst and its afterglow is reviewed.
We study mixed site-bond directed percolation on 2D and 3D lattices by using time-dependent simulations. Our results are compared with rigorous bounds recently obtained by Liggett and by Katori and Tsukahara. The critical fractions $p_{site}^c$ and $p_{bond}^c$ of sites and bonds are extremely well approximated by a relationship reported earlier for isotropic percolation, $(\log p_{site}^c/\log p_{site}^{c^*}+\log p_{bond}^c/\log p_{bond}^{c^*} = 1) $, where $p_{site}^{c^*}$ and $p_{bond}^{c^*}$ are the critical fractions in pure site and bond directed percolation.
I discuss optimized data analysis and Monte Carlo methods. Reweighting methods are discussed through examples, like Lee-Yang zeroes in the Ising model and the absence of deconfinement in QCD. I discuss reweighted data analysis and multi-hystogramming. I introduce Simulated Tempering, and as an example its application to the Random Field Ising Model. I illustrate Parallel Tempering, and discuss some technical crucial details like thermalization and volume scaling. I give a general perspective by discussing Umbrella Methods and the Multicanonical approach.
Using molecular dynamics (MD) with classical interaction potentials we present calculations of thermal conductivity and heat transport in crystals and glasses. Inducing shock waves and heat pulses into the systems we study the spreading of energy and temperature over the configurations. Phonon decay is investigated by exciting single modes in the structures and monitoring the time evolution of the amplitude using MD in a microcanonical ensemble. As examples, crystalline and amorphous modifications of Selenium and $\rm{SiO_2}$ are considered.
Both "large-U" and "small-U" orbitals are used to study the electronic structure of the high-T_c cuprates. A striped structure with three types of carriers are induced, polaron-like "stripons" which carry charge, "quasielectrons" which carry both charge and spin, and "svivons" which carry spin and lattice distortion. Anomalous physical properties of the cuprates are derived, and specifically the systematic behavior of the resistivity, Hall constant, and thermoelectric power. Transitions between pair states of quasielectrons and stripons drive high-temperature superconductivity.
In the last ten years significant advances have been made in our understanding and ability to compute and predict properties of ferroelectrics and piezoelectrics using fundamental physics. Phase diagrams, electromechanical and elastic properties, and effects of defects and surfaces are now amenable to computation. Most importantly, new techniques have been developed, and new understanding of the meaning of polarization in dielectrics has been developed. Prospects for the future are discussed.
We study random XY and (dimerized) XX spin-1/2 quantum spin chains at their quantum phase transition driven by the anisotropy and dimerization, respectively. Using exact expressions for magnetization, correlation functions and energy gap, obtained by the free fermion technique, the critical and off-critical (Griffiths-McCoy) singularities are related to persistence properties of random walks. In this way we determine exactly the decay exponents for surface and bulk transverse and longitudinal correlations, correlation length exponent and dynamical exponent.
Generalizing methods developed by Pinn, Pordt and Wieczerkowski for the hierarchical model with one component (N=1) and dimensions d between 2 and 4 we compute O(N)-symmetric fixed points of the hierarchical renormalization group equation for some N and d with 0 < d < 4 and -2 <= N <= 20. The spectra of the linearized RG equation at the fixed points are calculated and the critical exponents \nu are extracted from the spectrum and compared to Borel-Pade-resummed \epsilon-expansion.
We have examined extended structures, bridges and arches, in computer generated, non-sequentially stabilized, hard sphere deposits. The bridges and arches have well defined distributions of sizes and shapes. The distribution functions reflect the contraints associated with hard particle packing and the details of the restructuring process. A subpopulation of string-like bridges has been identified. Bridges are fundamental microstructural elements in real granular systems and their sizes and shapes dominate considerations of structural properties and flow instabilities such as jamming.
We consider close-packed dimers, or perfect matchings, on two-dimensional regular lattices. We review known results and derive new expressions for the free energy, entropy, and the molecular freedom of dimers for a number of lattices including the simple-quartic (4^4), honeycomb (6^3), triangular (3^6), kagome (3.6.3.6), 3-12 (3.12^2) and its dual [3.12^2], and 4-8 (4.8^2) and its dual Union Jack [4.8^2] Archimedean tilings. The occurrence and nature of phase transitions are also analyzed and discussed.
We present thermal conductivity and specific heat measurements on MgB2 and Mg-AlB2 samples. Thermal properties have been analysed by using a two-gap model in order to estimate the gap amplitudes, D(0)p and D(0)s and the intra-band scattering rates, Gss and Gpp. As a function of Al doping and disorder D(0)s rapidly decreases, while D(0)p is rather constant. Gss and Gpp are increased by the disorder, being Gpp more affected than Gss.
The electronic and optical properties of the cleavage InAs(110) surface are studied using a semi-empirical tight-binding method which employs an extended atomic-like basis set. We describe and discuss the electronic character of the surface electronic states and we compare with other theoretical approaches, and with experimental observations. We calculate the surface electronic band structure and the Reflectance Anisotropy Spectrum, which are described and discussed in terms of the surface electronic states and the atomic structure.
We study a class of mass transport models where mass is transported in a preferred direction around a one-dimensional periodic lattice and is globally conserved. The model encompasses both discrete and continuous masses and parallel and random sequential dynamics and includes models such as the Zero-range process and Asymmetric random average process as special cases. We derive a necessary and sufficient condition for the steady state to factorise, which takes a rather simple form.
We study vibrational modes and spectrum of a model system of atoms and springs on a scale-free network in order to understand the nature of excitations with many degrees of freedom on the scale-free network. We assume that the atoms and springs are distributed as nodes and links of a scale-free network, assigning the mass $M_{i}$ and the specific oscillation frequency $\omega_{i}$ of the $i$-th atom and the spring constant $K_{ij}$ between the $i$-th and $j$-th atoms.
We study and discuss rejuvenation and memory (numerical) experiments in Ising and Heisenberg three and four dimensional spin glasses. We introduce a quantitative procedure to analyze the results of temperature cycling experiments. We also run, compare and discuss ``twin'' couples of experiments. We find that in our systems aging is always cumulative in nature, and rejuvenation and memory effects are also cumulative: they are very different from the ones observed in experiments on spin glass materials.
Ab initio approaches are introduced for calculations of inelastic losses and vibrational damping in core level x-ray and electron spectroscopies. From the dielectric response function we obtain system-dependent self-energies, inelastic mean free paths, and losses due to multiple-electron excitations, while from the dynamical matrix we obtain phonon spectra and Debye-Waller factors. These developments yield various spectra and optical constants from the UV to x-ray energies in aperiodic materials, and significantly improve both the near edge and extended fine structure.
We formulate and apply a continuum model that incorporates elasticity, yield stress, plasticity and viscous drag. It is motivated by the two-dimensional foam rheology experiments of Debregeas et al. [G. Debregeas, H. Tabuteau, and J.-M. di Meglio, Phys. Rev. Lett. 87, 178305 (2001)] and Wang et al [Y. Wang, K. Krishan, and M. Dennin, Phys. Rev. E 73, 031401 (2006)], and is successful in exhibiting their principal features an exponentially decaying velocity profile and strain localisation. Transient effects are also identified.
We investigate the kinetics of the DNA melting transition using modified versions of the Peyrard-Dauxois-Bishop and Poland-Scheraga models that include long and short range interactions. Using Brownian dynamics and Monte Carlo simulations, we observe metastable states prior to nucleation and demonstrate that the profile and growth modes of the critical droplet can have both classical and spinodal characteristics depending on the interaction range and the temperature quench depth.
Hyperfine interactions, magnetic interactions between the spins of electrons and nuclei, in graphene and related carbon nanostructures are studied. By using a combination of accurate first principles calculations on graphene fragments and statistical analysis, I show that both isotropic and dipolar hyperfine interactions can be accurately described in terms of the local electron spin distribution and atomic structure. A complete set of parameters describing the hyperfine interactions of C-13 and other nuclear spins at substitution impurities and edge terminations is determined.
A way of extracting French verbal chunks, inflected and infinitive, is explored and tested on effective corpus. Declarative morphological and local grammar rules specifying chunks and some simple contextual structures are used, relying on limited lexical information and some simple heuristic/statistic properties obtained from restricted corpora. The specific goals, the architecture and the formalism of the system, the linguistic information on which it relies and the obtained results on effective corpus are presented.
Capacitance measurements have been made on silicon pixel sensors of types n+ on n, p+ on n, and n+ on p. The arrays test a variety of implant and gap widths, and the n+ on n devices test several p-stop designs. The measurements examine inter-pixel and backplane contributions and include studies of temperature dependence. Measurements were made before and after irradiation with fluences relevant to LHC experiments and Fermilab Tevatron Run 2.
We review many of the contributions of the CLEO experiment to tau physics. Topics discussed are: branching fractions for major decay modes and tests of lepton universality; rare decays; forbidden decays; Michel parameters and spin physics; hadronic sub-structure and resonance parameters; the tau mass, tau lifetime, and tau neutrino mass; searches for CP violation in tau decay; tau pair production, dipole moments, and CP violating EDM; and tau physics at CLEO-III and at CLEO-c.
We describe a document database, developed for BTeV, which has now been adopted for use by other collaborations. A single web based database and archival system is used to maintain public and internal documents as well as documents for a related collaboration. The database performs archiving, versioning, access control, and easy remote access and submission. We cover the technical and security requirements of the database and its implementation. Usage patterns, improvements in our collaborative style, and missteps along the way are also discussed.
Recent results on $B_d$, $B_u^{\pm}$, $B_s$, $\Lambda_b$ and Charm hadrons are reported from $\approx$ 75pb$^{-1}$ and $\approx$ 40 pb$^{-1}$ of data accumulated at the upgraded CDF and D0 experiments at the Fermilab Tevatron $\bar{p}-p$ collider, during Run-II. These include lifetime and mass measurements of $B$ and Charm hadrons, searches for rare decays in charm and $B$ hadrons and CP-violation in Charm decays. Results relevant to CP-violation in B-decays are also reported.
With the advent of the Tevatron Run 2, the collider experiments, CDF and D0, have reestablished the top quark and the W and Z signals and have begun programs of precision measurements of top quark and electroweak properties. We will survey some of the first Run 2 results from these analyses, and when appropriate compare with the Run 1 results. Finally we will give the status of Higgs boson searches and prospects at the Tevatron.
Preliminary results from the MILC collaboration for $f_B$, $f_{B_s}$, $f_D$, $f_{D_s}$ and their ratios are presented. We compute in the quenched approximation at $\beta=6.3$, 6.0 and 5.7 with Wilson light quarks and static and Wilson heavy quarks. We attempt to quantify systematic errors due to finite volume, finite lattice spacing, large $am$, and fitting and extrapolation uncertainties. The hopping parameter approach of Henty and Kenway is used to treat the heavy quarks; the sources are Coulomb gauge gaussians.
The probability density of low-lying eigenvectors of the hermitian Wilson-Dirac operator is examined. Comparisons in position and size between eigenvectors, topological charge and action density are made. We do this for standard Monte-Carlo generated SU(3) background fields and for single instanton background fields. Both hot and cooled SU(3) background fields are considered. An instanton model is fitted to eigenmodes and topological charge density and the sizes and positions of these are compared.
This talk contains a subjective selection of interesting results on Z$^0$ decays, presented by the LEP and SLC groups. The emphasis is on soft and semihard QCD physics. Results are put in a theoretical context, and the limits of our current understanding are stressed. Topics covered include event measures, prompt photons, coherence and string effects, data and theory for particle rates and spectra, particle correlations and Bose--Einstein effects.
The proton and deuteron structure functions F2p and F2d were measured in the kinematic range 0.006<x<0.6 and 0.5<Q^2<75 GeV^2, by inclusive deep inelastic muon scattering at 90, 120, 200 and 280 GeV. The measurements are in good agreement with earlier high precision results. The present and earlier results together have been parametrised to give descriptions of the proton and deuteron structure functions F2 and their uncertainties over the range 0.006<x<0.9.
We prove that the {\em gauge dependent} gluon spin, gluon and quark orbital angular momenta operators have {\em gauge invariant} expectation values on hadron states with {\em definite} momentum and polarization, therefore the conventional decomposition of nucleon spin into contributions from the spin and orbital angular momentum of quark and gluon is {\em gauge independent}. Similar conclusions apply to the {\em gauge dependent} quark momentum and kinetic energy operators, and accordingly nucleon momentum and mass structures.
My thesis contains an introduction to Light-front Hamiltonian field theory and updates of published articles: - "Equivalence of Covariant and Light-Front Perturbation Theory" (hep-ph/9702311 and hep-ph/9806365, N. C. J. Schoonderwoerd and B. L. G. Bakker, published in Phys.Rev.D) and - "Entanglement of Fock-space expansion and covariance in light-front Hamiltonian field theory" (hep-ph/9806365, N. C. J. Schoonderwoerd, B. L. G. Bakker and V.A. Karmanov, accepted for publication in Phys.Rev.C.)
We show that measurements of semi-inclusive $\pi^\pm$ asymmetries on $p$ and $n$ with polarized and unpolarized target and beams allow, without any knowledge of the polarized parton densities 1) to test independent fragmentation and SU(2) symmetry for the polarized sea, and 2) to determine separately the polarized strange and valence quark densities, and the ratio of the fragmentation functions   $D_s^{\pi^+ + \pi^-}/D_u^{\pi^+ +\pi^-}$
We present the analytic calculation of the Mellin moments of the structure functions F_2, F_3 and F_L in perturbative QCD up to second order corrections and in leading twist approximation. We calculate the 2-loop contributions to the anomalous dimensions of the singlet and non-singlet operator matrix elements and the 2-loop coefficient functions of F_2, F_3 and F_L. We perform the inverse Mellin transformation analytically and find our results in agreement with earlier calculations in the literature by Zijlstra and van Neerven.
The $J/\Psi$ and $\Psi'$ experiments at the Beijing Electron Positron Collider (BEPC) play a unique role in many aspects of light hadron spectroscopy, such as hunting for glueballs and hybrids, extracting $u\bar u+d\bar d$ and $s\bar s$ components of mesons, and studying excited nucleons and hyperons, i.e., $N^*$, $\Lambda^*$, $\Sigma^*$ and $\Xi^*$ resonances. Physics objectives, recent results and future prospects of light hadron spectroscopy at BEPC are presented.
The role of B decays in the study of CP violation is reviewed. We treat the interactions and spectroscopy of the $b$ quark and then introduce CP violation in $B$ meson decays, including time-dependences, decays to CP eigenstates and non-eigenstates, and flavor tagging. Additional topics include studies of strange $B$'s, decays to pairs of light pseudoscalar mesons, and the roles of gluonic and electroweak penguin diagrams, and final-state interactions.
The Kamioka Liquid scintillator Anti-Neutrino Detector (KamLAND) is collecting antineutrino events generated by nuclear reactors and by Thorium and Uranium decay in the Earth interior. We comment on a systematic approach to the evaluation of the geo-neutrino contribution and of its uncertainties in KamLAND, taking into account geophysical and geochemical indications, estimates, and data. The results can help to improve both the neutrino oscillation analysis and the knowledge of the Earth interior. Input and desiderata for future geoneutrino analyses are identified.
The Tevatron Run-II started data-taking in spring 2001 and several searches for new particles have been performed. The preliminary 2005 results are concisely reviewed for the experiments CDF and D0. Model-independent and model-dependent limits on Higgs boson and Supersymmetric particle production are set and interpretations are given. Several limits from the LEP era have been extended. The outlook for the Tevatron and the prospects for the ATLAS and CMS experiments at the LHC for selected searches are briefly addressed.
Light constituent quark masses and the corresponding dynamical quark masses are determined by data, the quark-level linear sigma model, and infrared QCD. This allows to define effective nonstrange and strange current quark masses, which reproduce the experimental pion and kaon masses very accurately, by simple additivity. In contrast, the usual nonstrange and strange current quarks employed by the Particle Data Group and Chiral Perturbation Theory do not allow a straightforward quantitative explanation of the pion and kaon masses.
We study the commutation relations, uncertainty relations and spectra of position and momentum operators within the framework of quantum group % symmetric Heisenberg algebras and their (Bargmann-) Fock representations. As an effect of the underlying noncommutative geometry, a length and a momentum scale appear, leading to the existence of minimal nonzero uncertainties in the positions and momenta. The usual quantum mechanical behaviour is recovered as a limiting case for not too small and not too large distances and momenta.
We present a brief survey of the results of the Theory of Solitons from the viewpoint of the periodic theory including some new results in the theory of 2-dimensional periodic Schrodinger Operators. The main subjects are: Periodic Solitons and Algebraic Geometry, The Theory of Solitons and the String equation, Topologically trivial and nontrivial periodic two-dimensional Schrodinger operators and Riemann surfaces and Cyclic and semicyclic chains of Laplace transformations (new results of the present author and A.Veselov).
Motivated by the rich geometry of conformal Riemannian manifolds and by the recent development of geometries modeled on homogeneous spaces $G/P$ with $G$ semisimple and $P$ parabolic, Weyl structures and preferred connections are introduced in this general framework. In particular, we extend the notions of scales, closed and exact Weyl connections, and Rho--tensors, we characterize the classes of such objects, and we use the results to give a new description of the Cartan bundles and connections for all parabolic geometries.
Let A and B be subsets of Z/pZ such that ;A+B; < ;A;+;B;+2. We prove that, if ;A;>3, ;B;>4, ;A+B;<p-4 and p > 52, then A and B are included in arithmetic progressions with the same difference and of size ;A;+2 and ;B;+2 respectively. This extends the well-known theorem of Vosper and a recent result of Rodseth and one of the present authors.
These notes give an introduction to Geometric Invariant Theory and symplectic reduction, with lots of pictures and simple examples. We describe their applications to moduli of bundles and varieties, and their infinite dimensional analogues in gauge theory and the theory of special metrics on algebraic varieties. Donaldson's "quantisation" link between the infinite and finite dimensional situations is described, as are surprisingly strong connections between the bundle and variety cases.
We investigate the properties of the Benjamini--Hochberg method for multiple testing and of a variant of Storey's generalization of it, extending and complementing the asymptotic and exact results available in the literature. Results are obtained under two different sets of assumptions and include asymptotic and exact expressions and bounds for the proportion of rejections, the proportion of incorrect rejections out of all rejections and two other proportions used to quantify the efficacy of the method.
There have been extensive developments recently in modern nonparametric inference and modeling. Nonparametric and semi-parametric methods are especially useful with large amounts of data that are now routinely collected in many areas of science. Probability and stochastic modeling are also playing major new roles in scientific applications. This refereed special volume highlights challenges and developments at this interface of statistics, probability and the sciences, and honors Michael B. Woodroofe for his pioneering contributions to nonparametric inference and probability.
Let $T$ be a Noetherian ring and $f$ a nonzerodivisor on $T$. We study concrete necessary and sufficient conditions for a module over $R=T/(f)$ to be weakly liftable to $T$, in the sense of Auslander, Ding and Solberg. We focus on cyclic modules and get various positive and negative results on the lifting and weak lifting problems. For a module over $T$ we define the loci for certain properties: liftable, weakly liftable, having finite projective dimension and study their relationships.
A new kind of numbers called Hyper Space Complex Numbers and its algebras are defined and proved. It is with good properties as the classic Complex Numbers, such as expressed in coordinates, triangular and exponent forms and following the associative and commutative laws of addition and multiplication. So the classic Complex Number is developed from in complex plane with two dimensions to in complex space with N dimensions and the number system is enlarged also.
We discuss the semiclassical approaches for describing systems with spin-orbit interactions by Littlejohn and Flynn (1991, 1992), Frisk and Guhr (1993), and by Bolte and Keppeler (1998, 1999). We use these methods to derive trace formulae for several two- and three-dimensional model systems, and exhibit their successes and limitations. We discuss, in particular, also the mode conversion problem that arises in the strong-coupling limit.
Discrete solitons in the Ablowitz-Ladik (AL) and discrete nonlinear Schr\"odinger (DNLS) equations with damping and strong rapid drive are investigated. The averaged equations have the forms of the parametric AL and DNLS equations. A new type of parametric bright discrete soliton and cnoidal waves are found and the stability properties are analyzed. The analytical predictions of the perturbed inverse scattering transform are confirmed by the numerical simulations of the AL and DNLS equations with rapidly varying drive and damping.
The results of measurements and computer simulations are presented for the yields of residual product nuclei in thin targets: U-nat irradiated by 0.1, 0.8, 1.2, and 1.6 GeV and Tc-99 irradiated by 0.2, 0.8, 1.0, 1.4, and 1.6 GeV protons. The yields were measured at ITEP by direct high-precision gamma spectrometry. About 820 cross sections are presented and used in comparison between measured yields and simulations by the LAHET, INUCL, CEM95, HETC, CASCADE, YIELDX, and ALICE codes.
The measurement and interpretation of isotopic yield ratios in heavy ion reactions at intermediate and high energies are discussed and the usefulness of these observables for establishing equilibrium properties and for determining thermodynamic parameters is illustrated. The examples are mainly taken from work performed with lighter projectiles at intermediate and high energies and from studies of spectator reactions at relativistic energies. As an application, the caloric curve of nuclei, as derived for Au on Au collisions, is introduced and discussed.
Recent results on rho(770)^0, K(892)^*0, f_0(980), phi(1020), Delta(1232)^++, and Lambda(1520) production in A+A and p+p collisions at SPS and RHIC energies are presented. These resonances are measured via their hadronic decay channels and used as a sensitive tool to examine the collision dynamics in the hadronic medium through their decay and regeneration. The modification of resonance mass, width, and shape due to phase space and dynamical effects are discussed.
Nucleon correlations in the target and projectile nuclei are shown to reduce significantly the fluctuations in multiple nucleon-nucleon collisions, total multiplicity and transverse energy in relativistic heavy-ion collisions, in particular for heavy projectile and target. The interplay between cross-section fluctuations, from color transparency and opacity, and nuclear correlations is calculated and found to be able to account for large fluctuations in transverse energy spectra. Numerical implementation of correlations and cross-section fluctuations in Monte-Carlo codes is discussed.
The dispersion relation of $\rho$ meson in both timelike and spacelike regimes in hot and dense nuclear medium is analyzed and compared with $\sigma $ meson based on the quantum hadrodynamics model. The pole and screening masses of $\rho $ and $\sigma$ are discussed. The behavior of screening mass of $\rho$ is different from that of $\sigma$ due to different Dirac- and Fermi-sea contributions at finite temperature and density.
An introduction to nuclear theory is given starting from the quantum chromodynamics foundations for quark and gluon fields, then discussing properties of pions and nucleons, interactions between nucleons, structure of the deuteron and light nuclei, and finishing at the description of heavy nuclei. It is shown how concepts of different energy and size scales and ideas related to effective fields and symmetry breaking, enter our description of nuclear systems.
We study sum rules for charge exchange operators of the Gamow-Teller and Fermi type and explore what can be learned from them about proton-neutron pairing in T=0 and T=1 channels. We consider both energy weighted (EWSR) and non-energy weighted (NEWSR) sum rules. We use a schematic Hamiltonian to stress the distinctive roles of T=1 and T=0 pair interactions and correlations in the sum rules. Numerical results for 44Ti are presented for both schematic and realistic interactions.
The NA57 experiment at the CERN SPS has measured the production of strange and multi-strange particles in Pb-Pb (and p-Be) collisions at mid-rapidity. The collective dynamics of the collision is studied in the transverse and longitudinal directions as a function of centrality and beam momentum and analysed based on hydrodynamical models. Central-to-peripheral nuclear modification factors at 158 A GeV/c are presented and compared with other measurements and theory.
We generalize the geometry of Santilli's locally anisotropic and inhomogeneous isospaces to the geometry of vector isobundles provided with nonlinear and distinguished isoconnections and isometric structures. We present, apparently for the first time, the isotopies of Lagrange, Finsler and Kaluza--Klein spaces. We also continue the study of the interior, locally anisotropic and inhomogeneous gravitation by extending the isoriemannian space's constructions and presenting a geometric background for the theory of isofield interactions in generalized isolagrange and isofinsler spaces.
We generalize the geometry of Santilli's locally anisotropic and inhomogeneous isospaces to the geometry of vector isobundles provided with nonlinear and distinguished isoconnections and isometric structures. We present, apparently for the first time, the isotopies of Lagrange, Finsler and Kaluza-Klein spaces. We also continue the study of the interior, locally anisotropic and inhomogeneous gravitation by extending the isoriemannian space's constructions and presenting a geometric background for the theory of isofield interactions in generalized isolagrange and isofinsler spaces.
Important aspects of the process of information storage and retrieval in DNA and RNA, and its evolution, are the role of the anticodons and associated $t$RNA's, and correlations between anticodons and amino acids; the degeneracy of the genetic code, and the periodicity of many amino acid physico-chemical properties. Such factors are analysed in the context of a $sl(6/1)$ supersymmetric model of the genetic code.
We introduce notions of free energy and loss in linear, absorbing dielectric media which are relevant to the regime in which the macroscopic Maxwell equations are themselves relevant. As such we solve a problem eluded to by Landau and Lifshitz in 1958, and later considered explicitly by Barash and Ginzburg, and Oughtsun and Sherman. As such we provide physically-relevant real-time notions of "energy" and "loss" in all analogous linear dissipative systems.
A primary purpose of this review is to identify and summarize recently published information about the use and performance of light-emitting diode (LED) traffic signals. It consists of two sections: a synopsis of experiences of municipalities using LED traffic signals in 1999 and 2000, and a discussion of technical, economic and market issues surrounding the deployment of LED signals. This review includes articles and reports published in 1999 and 2000.
We in this paper consider a further generalization of the (optical) holonomic quantum computation proposed by Zanardi and Rasetti (quant-ph/9904011), and reinforced by Fujii (quant-ph/9910069) and Pachos and Chountasis (quant-ph/9912093). We construct a quantum computational bundle on some parameter space, and calculate non-abelian Berry connections and curvatures explicitly in the special cases. Our main tool is unitary coherent operators based on Lie algebras su(n+1) and su(n,1), where the case of n = 1 is the previous one.
A version of the Dirac equation is derived from first principles using a combination of quaternions and multivariate 4-vectors. The nilpotent form of the operators used allows us to derive explicit expressions for the wavefunctions of free fermions, vector bosons, scalar bosons; Bose-Einstein condensates, and baryons;annihilation, creation and vacuum operators; the quantum field integrals; and C, P and T transformations; and to suggest new insights into the meaning of supersymmetry and renormalization.
Some aspects of replacing C based physics by C_{n} based physics are discussed. Here C_{n} ={R_{n},I_{n}} where R_{n} and I_{n} are the real and imaginary components of the numbers in C_{n}, and both R_{n} and I_{n}) are sets of length 2n string numbers in some basis. The discussion here is limited to describing the experimental basis and choice for the numbers in R_{n}, and a few basic but interesting properties of R_{n} based space and time.
We review various inequalities on the order and the spacing of energy levels, wave function at the origin, etc... which were obtained since 1977 in the framework of the Schrodinger equation and applied to quarkonium and also to muonic atoms and alcaline atoms. We also present a fit of mesons and baryons made of b, c, s quarks and antiquarks, keeping the 1981 parameters and comparing with present experimental data.
This Resource Letter provides a guide to the literature on dark energy and the accelerating universe. It is intended to be of use to researchers, teachers, and students at several levels. Journal articles, books, and websites are cited for the following topics: Einstein's cosmological constant, quintessence or dynamical scalar fields, modified cosmic gravity, relations to high energy physics, cosmological probes and observations, terrestrial probes, calculational tools and parameter estimation, teaching strategies and educational resources, and the fate of the universe.
Recent results from the experiments NA48, NA48/1 and NA48/2 are presented, including: direct CP-violation and Dalitz plot slopes measurements for K+- --> 3 pi decays; pi pi scattering effects in K+- --> pi+- pi0 pi0 and Ke4 decays, as well as Ke4 form factors and branching fraction; measurements on radiative charged kaons and hyperon decays, semileptonic decays of neutral and charged kaons; KL --> pi+ pi- branching ratio and ;eta+-; measurement; lepton universality check with Kl2 decays.
In the paper we discuss the B\"acklund transformation of the KdV equation between solitons and solitons, between negatons and negatons, between positons and positons, between rational solution and rational solution, and between complexitons and complexitons. We investigate the conditions that Wronskian entries satisfy for the bilinear B\"acklund transformation of the KdV equation. By choosing suitable Wronskian entries and the parameter in the bilinear B\"acklund transformation, we obtain transformations between many kinds of solutions.
An overview of W and Z production in high energy hadron collisions is given. W and Z cross section and asymmetry measurements from CDF and DO are described, with particular emphasis on recent results. The current status of precision W mass and width measurements is reported. The fundamental physics parameters that can be extracted from these measurements are described, and the relevance of W and Z production studies for the LHC is pointed out.
We survey the results in Nane (E. Nane, Higher order PDE's and iterated processes, Trans. American Math. Soc. (to appear)) and Baeumer, Meerschaert, and Nane (B. Baeumer, M.M. Meerschaert and E. Nane, Brownian subordinators and fractional Cauchy problems: Submitted (2007)) which deal with PDE connection of some iterated processes, and obtain a new probabilistic proof of the equivalence of the higher order PDE's and fractional in time PDE's.
We provide a method of converting Lagrange and Finsler spaces and their Legendre transforms to Hamilton and Cartan spaces into almost Kaehler structures on tangent and cotangent bundles. In particular cases, the Hamilton spaces contain nonholonomic lifts of (pseudo) Riemannian / Einstein metrics on effective phase spaces. This allows us to define the corresponding Fedosov operators and develop deformation quantization schemes for nonlinear mechanical and gravity models on Lagrange- and Hamilton-Fedosov manifolds.
The Monitor project is a large-scale program of photometric and spectroscopic monitoring of young open clusters using telescopes at ESO and other observatories. Its primary goal is to detect and characterise new low-mass eclipsing binaries, and the first three detected systems are discussed here. We derive the masses and radii of the components of each system directly from the light and radial velocity curves, and compare them to the predictions of commonly used theoretical evolutionary models of low-mass stars.
In this paper, we drive and simplify some important equations and relations for an evolving star with spherical symmetry, and then give some simple analysis for their properties and implications. In the light-cone coordinate system, these equations and relations have a normal and neat form which is much accessible than the usual Einstein field equation. So they may be helpful for students to study general relativity and for researchers to do further discussion.
An inhomogeneous backflow transformation for many-particle wave functions is presented and applied to electrons in atoms, molecules, and solids. We report variational and diffusion quantum Monte Carlo VMC and DMC energies for various systems and study the computational cost of using backflow wave functions. We find that inhomogeneous backflow transformations can provide a substantial increase in the amount of correlation energy retrieved within VMC and DMC calculations. The backflow transformations significantly improve the wave functions and their nodal surfaces.
Let X be a (connected and reduced) complex space. A q-collar of X is a bounded domain whose boundary is a union of a strongly q-pseudoconvex, a strongly q-pseudoncave and two flat (i.e. locally zero sets of pluriharmonic functions) hypersurfaces. Finiteness and vanishing cohomology theorems obtained in math/0503490 and math/0701549 for semi q-coronae are generalized in this context and lead to results on extension problem and removable sets for sections of coherent sheaves and analytic subsets.
By studying the holomorphic structure of automorphic inverse property quasigroups and loops[AIPQ and (AIPL)] and cross inverse property quasigroups and loops[CIPQ and (CIPL)], it is established that the holomorph of a loop is a Smarandache; AIPL, CIPL, K-loop, Bruck-loop or Kikkawa-loop if and only if its Smarandache automorphism group is trivial and the loop is itself is a Smarandache; AIPL, CIPL, K-loop, Bruck-loop or Kikkawa-loop.
A hadronic chiral SU(3) model is applied to neutron and proto-neutron stars, taking into account trapped neutrinos, finite temperature and entropy. The transition to the chirally restored phase is studied and global properties of the stars like minimum and maximum masses and radii are calculated for different cases. In addition, the effects of rotation on neutron star masses are included and the conservation of baryon number and angular momentum determine the maximum frequencies of rotation during the cooling.
In these lectures, I give an introduction to and overview of braneworlds and black holes in the context of warped compactifications. I first describe the general paradigm of braneworlds, and introduce the Randall-Sundrum model. I discuss braneworld gravity, both using perturbation theory, and also non perturbative results. I then discuss black holes on the brane, the obstructions to finding exact solutions, and ways of tackling these difficulties. I describe some known solutions, and conclude with some open questions and controversies.
Two-particle high-$p_T$ triggered correlations in $Cu+Cu$ and $Au+Au$ collisions at $\sqrt{s_{NN}}$ = 62 $GeV$ and $\sqrt{s_{NN}}$ = 200 $GeV$ in STAR at RHIC are presented. The $N_{part}$, $p_T^{associated}$, and $p_T^{trigger}$ dependence of the yield per trigger in the \textit{Jet} and \textit{Ridge} components of the near-side is investigated for h, $K^0_S$, $\Lambda$, and $\Xi$ trigger and associated particles. The system and energy dependence of these components is a potentially powerful tool to distinguish between models used to describe their production.
Simple continued fractions, base-b expansions, Dedekind cuts and Cauchy sequences are common notations for number systems. In this note, first, it is proven that both simple continued fractions and base-b expansions fail to denote real numbers and thus lack logic; second, it is shown that Dedekind cuts and Cauchy sequences fail to join in algebraical operations and thus lack intuition; third, we construct a logical calculus and deduce numbers to intuitively and logically denote number systems.
The CMS/TOTEM and ATLAS collaborations carry out a program of forward physics with several near-beam detectors extending their coverage to high pseudorapidities. This instrumentation includes calorimeters (CASTOR and ZDC), tracking devices (TOTEM T1 and T2), proton taggers (Roman Pots and FP420), and instrumentation dedicated to luminosity monitoring and normalisation. A rich physics program is accessible, including soft QCD interactions, Diffraction, photon-induced physics and luminosity measurements.
Many important QCD tests with jets and prompt photons have been performed with the experiments H1 and ZEUS at the HERA ep collider. This contribution focuses on results from jet and prompt photon photoproduction. In particular, the concept of resolved photon interactions and various jet cross sections and their sensitivity to the photon (and proton) PDFs will be discussed. In addition, recent results from prompt photon production will be shown. Finally results on multi-parton interactions and the underlying event will be presented.
Chromogeometry brings together Euclidean geometry (called blue) and two relativistic geometries (called red and green), in a surprising three-fold symmetry. We show how the red and green `Euler lines' and `nine-point circles' of a triangle interact with the usual blue ones, and how the three orthocenters form an associated triangle with interesting collinearities. This is developed in the framework of rational trigonometry using quadrance and spread instead of distance and angle. The former are more suitable for relativistic geometries.
We investigate the angular correlation between pions and photons produced in deuteron-gold collisions at RHIC and proton-lead collisions at LHC using the Color Glass Condensate formalism and make predictions for the dependence of the production cross section on the angle between the pion and photon at different rapidities and transverse momenta. Measuring this dependence would shed further light on the role of high gluon density and saturation dynamics at RHIC and LHC.
This document describes the communication language used in one multiagent system environment for ecological simulations, based on EcoDynamo simulator application linked with several intelligent agents and visualisation applications, and extends the initial definition of the language. The agents actions and perceptions are translated into messages exchanged with the simulator application and other agents. The concepts and definitions used follow the BNF notation (Backus et al. 1960) and is inspired in the Coach Unilang language (Reis and Lau 2002).
We present parallel and sequential dense QR factorization algorithms for tall and skinny matrices and general rectangular matrices that both minimize communication, and are as stable as Householder QR. The sequential and parallel algorithms for tall and skinny matrices lead to significant speedups in practice over some of the existing algorithms, including LAPACK and ScaLAPACK, for example up to 6.7x over ScaLAPACK. The parallel algorithm for general rectangular matrices is estimated to show significant speedups over ScaLAPACK, up to 22x over ScaLAPACK.
We present multicolour photometry and modelling of the active eclipsing binary star V405 And. The components of 0.2 and 0.5 solar masses are just below and above the theoretical limit of the full convection, that is thought to be around 0.3 solar mass. The light curves are compositions of constant and variable features: the distorted shape of the components (about 25%), a small eclipse, and mainly of spots (about 75%) and flares.
The status of W and Z cross-section and width measurements from the CDF and D0 experiments is reviewed. Recent results that are discussed: the cross-section for Z production times the branching ratio to tau pairs, the rapidity and transverse momentum distributions of Z production in the electron channel, and the direct measurements of the W width and the Z invisible width; the latter from an analysis of events with large missing transverse energy and one or more energetic jets.
The search for a Higgs boson produced via Vector Boson Fusion and subsequently decaying to two tau leptons is discussed. Significances for the di-lepton and lepton-hadron decay channels are presented, and the fully hadronic decay channel is shown to be feasible in terms of trigger, mass reconstruction and signal efficiency. We consider performance issues for tau ID, missing transverse energy, forward jet identification, and central jet and b-jet vetoes, and outline several methods to estimate background contributions.
The German forces occupying Paris arrested Emile Borel and three other members of the Acad\'emie des Sciences in October 1941 and released them about five weeks later. Why? We examine some relevant German and French archives and other sources and propose some hypotheses. In the process, we review how the Occupation was structured and how it dealt with French higher education and some French mathematicians.
We present some of the strategies being developed to classify and parameterize objects obtained with spectra from the Sloan Digital Sky Survey (SDSS) and the RAdial Velocity Experiment (RAVE) and present some results. We estimate stellar atmospheric parameters (effective temperature, gravity, and metallicity) from spectral and photometric data and use these to analyse Galactic populations. We demonstrate this through the selection of a sample of candidate Blue Horizontal-Branch and RR Lyrae stars selected from SDSS/SEGUE.
This paper investigates theoretical properties and efficient numerical algorithms for the so-called elastic-net regularization originating from statistics, which enforces simultaneously l^1 and l^2 regularization. The stability of the minimizer and its consistency are studied, and convergence rates for both a priori and a posteriori parameter choice rules are established. Two iterative numerical algorithms of active set type are proposed, and their convergence properties are discussed. Numerical results are presented to illustrate the features of the functional and algorithms.
Noble gas permeabilities and diffusivities of Kapton, butyl, nylon, and "Silver Shield" are measured at temperatures between 22C and 115C. The breakthrough times and solubilities at 22C are also determined. The relationship of the room temperature permeabilities to the noble gas atomic radii is used to estimate radon permeability for each material studied. For the noble gases tested, Kapton and Silver Shield have the lowest permeabilities and diffusivities, followed by nylon and butyl, respectively.
We provide a comprehensive review of hadronic decays of D and D_s mesons. We discuss current theoretical and experimental challenges and successes in understanding of hadronic transitions of those mesons. A brief overview of the theoretical and experimental tools are given before discussing the absolute branching fractions for D and D_s mesons. Cabibbo suppressed and rare hadronic decays are discussed and compared with theory before discussing our understanding of hadronic multibody decays.
We study the Teichm\"uller theory of Riemann surfaces with orbifold points of order two using the fat graph technique. The previously developed technique of quantization, classical and quantum mapping-class group transformations, and Poisson and quantum algebras of geodesic functions is applicable to the surfaces with orbifold points. We describe classical and quantum braid group relations for particular sets of geodesic functions corresponding to $A_n$ and $D_n$ algebras and describe their central elements for the Poisson and quantum algebras.
Using NRQCD b quarks and HISQ light, strange and charm quarks we have calculated B meson masses and B^*-B splittings. We quote results for a range of lattice spacings and sea quark masses, enabling controlled extrapolation to the physical point. Since the $b$ quark masses and lattice spacing are fixed from the \Upsilon and other meson masses, this allows accurate, parameter-free tests of B, B_s, and B_c masses against experiment. We can also predict the mass of the B^*_c meson.
The ability of bridging thiophenolate groups to transmit magnetic exchange interactions between paramagnetic Ni(II) ions has been examined. For this purpose, dinuclear and trinuclear Ni(II)-complexes were prepared and fully characterized by IR- and UV-vis spectroscopy, X-ray crystallography, static magnetization measurements and high-field electron spin resonance (HF-ESR). We compare structural and magnetic properties of the two Ni(II)-complexes and discuss the relationships between magnetic interactions and chemical bonding.
In this paper, we will study Lee, Kim and Yoo, a verifier password typed key agreement scheme and demonstrate that the scheme is not secure. Then, the authors will propose an enhanced verifier typed key agreement scheme relied on Lee, Kim and Yoo scheme and demonstrate that the propose scheme resists against password guessing attack and stolen verifier attack. The authors are claimed that the proposed scheme is more secure and efficient compare with Lee, Kim and Yoo.
We present particular and unique solutions of singlet and non-singlet Dokshitzer-Gribov-Lipatov- Altarelli-Parisi (DGLAP) evolution equations in next-to-next-to-leading order (NNLO) at low-x. We obtain t-evolutions of deuteron, proton, neutron and difference and ratio of proton and neutron structure functions at low-x from DGLAP evolution equations. The results of t-evolutions are compared with HERA and NMC lox-x and low-Q2 data. We also compare our result of t-evolution of proton structure function with a recent global parameterization.
J.Eells and L. Lemaire introduced k-harmonic maps, and T. Ichiyama, J. Inoguchi and H.Urakawa showed the first variation formula. In this paper, we give the second variation formula of k-harmonic maps, and show non-existence theorem of proper k-harmonic maps into a Riemannian manifold of non-positive curvature (k >= 2). We also study k-harmonic maps into the product Riemannian manifold, and describe the ordinary differential equations of 3-harmonic curves and 4-harmonic curves into a sphere, and show their non-trivial solutions.
In this paper we study oriented quantum coalgebras which are structures closely related to oriented quantum algebras. We study the relationship between oriented quantum coalgebras and oriented quantum algebras and the relationship between oriented quantum coalgebras and quantum coalgebras. We show that there are regular isotopy invariants of oriented 1-1 tangles and of oriented knots and links associated to oriented and twist oriented quantum coalgebras respectively. There are many parallels between the theory of oriented quantum coalgebras and the theory of quantum coalgebras
The earlier paper "Introduction to clarithmetic I" constructed an axiomatic system of arithmetic based on computability logic (see http://www.cis.upenn.edu/~giorgi/cl.html), and proved its soundness and extensional completeness with respect to polynomial time computability. The present paper elaborates three additional sound and complete systems in the same style and sense: one for polynomial space computability, one for elementary recursive time (and/or space) computability, and one for primitive recursive time (and/or space) computability.
We obtain compatible Hamiltonian and symplectic structure for a new two-component fifth-order integrable system recently found by Mikhailov, Novikov and Wang (arXiv:0712.1972), and show that this system possesses a hereditary recursion operator and infinitely many commuting symmetries and conservation laws, as well as infinitely many compatible Hamiltonian and symplectic structures, and is therefore completely integrable. The system in question admits a reduction to the Kaup--Kupershmidt equation.
We compute the Casimir interaction between a plane and a sphere, the configuration employed in the most precise experiments. The scattering formula is developed by taking a suitably chosen plane-wave and multipole basis and is valid for arbitrary values of the sphere radius, inter-plate distance, temperature and arbitrary dielectric functions for both sphere and plate. Our analytical and numerical results for metallic surfaces show a non-trivial interplay between the effects of curvature, temperature, finite conductivity and dissipation.
The tight span, or injective envelope, is an elegant and useful construction that takes a metric space and returns the smallest hyperconvex space into which it can be embedded. The concept has stimulated a large body of theory and has applications to metric classification and data visualisation. Here we introduce a generalisation of metrics, called diversities, and demonstrate that the rich theory associated to metric tight spans and hyperconvexity extends to a seemingly richer theory of diversity tight spans and hyperconvexity.
Boij and S\"oderberg made a pair of conjectures, which were subsequently proven by Eisenbud and Schreyer and then extended by Boij and S\"oderberg, about the structure of Betti diagrams of Graded modules. In the theory, a particular family of posets, and their associated order complexes, play an integral role. We explore the structure of this family. In particular, we show the posets are bounded complete lattices and the order complexes are vertex-decomposable, hence Cohen-Macaulay and squarefree glicci.
We analyze the CoRoT and V-passband ground-based light curves of the interacting close binary AU Mon, assuming that there is a geometrically and optically thick accretion disk around the hotter and more massive star, as inferred from photometric and spectroscopic characteristics of the binary. Our model fits the observations very well and provides estimates for the orbital elements and physical parameters of the components and of the accretion disk.
Software component reuse is the software engineering practice of developing new software products from existing components. A reuse library or component reuse repository organizes stores and manages reusable components. This paper describes how a reusable component is created, how it reuses the function and checking if optimized code is being used in building programs and applications. Finally providing coding guidelines, standards and best practices used for creating reusable components and guidelines and best practices for making configurable and easy to use.
We report resistivity $\rho$ and Hall effect measurements on EuFe$_2$As$_2$ at ambient pressure and 28 kbar and magnetization measurements at ambient pressure. We analyze the temperature and magnetic-field dependence of $\rho$ and the Hall effect using a molecular-field theory for magnetoresistance and an empirical formula for the anomalous Hall effect and find that electron scattering due to the Eu$^{2+}$ local moments plays only a minor role in determining electronic transport properties of EuFe$_2$As$_2$.
Using the PNJL model, we investigate C and P violations when theta =pi and Theta =mu/(iT)=\pi/3, where T, theta and mu are the temperature, the parameter of theta-vacuum and the quark number chemical potential, respectively. It is shown that the C violation and the P restoration happen almost simultaneously at theta=pi and Theta =pi/3, if the deconfinement and the chiral symmetry restoration happen almost simultaneously at theta =Theta =0.
We present recent preliminary measurements at the Tevatron of t-tbar and single top production cross section, top quark mass and width, top pair spin correlations and forward-backward asymmetry. In the electroweak sector, we present the Tevatron average of the W boson width, and preliminary measurements of the W and Z forward-backward asymmetries and WZ, ZZ diboson production cross sections. All measurements are based on larger amount of collision data than previously used and are in agreement with the standard model.
This paper discusses the interplay of symmetries and stability in the analysis and control of nonlinear dynamical systems and networks. Specifically, it combines standard results on symmetries and equivariance with recent convergence analysis tools based on nonlinear contraction theory and virtual dynamical systems. This synergy between structural properties (symmetries) and convergence properties (contraction) is illustrated in the contexts of network motifs arising e.g. in genetic networks, of invariance to environmental symmetries, and of imposing different patterns of synchrony in a network.
Based on first-principle FLAPW-GGA calculations, we have investigated structural and electronic properties of the recently synthesized tetragonal (space group P4/nmm) nickel-based pnictide oxide superconductors: 3.3K (Ni2P2)(Sr4Sc2O6) and 2.7K (Ni2As2)(Sr4Sc2O6). Optimized structural data, electronic bands, total and partial densities of states, and Fermi surface topology have been obtained and discussed in comparison with available experiments and with their Fe-based (Fe2P2)(Sr4Sc2O6) and (Fe2As2)(Sr4Sc2O6) analogs.
The basic known and hypothetic one- and two-element phases of the B-C-N-O system (both superhard phases having diamond and boron structures and precursors to synthesize them) are described. The attention has been given to the structure, basic mechanical properties, and methods to identify and characterize the materials. For some phases that have been recently described in the literature the synthesis conditions at high pressures and temperatures are indicated.
In this paper will be applied some principles and methods from econophysics in the case of the direct foreign investitions (D.F.I.), particularised for the Greenfield type, and mixed firms of trade and industrial production (Joint Ventures). To this aim will be used some similarities and parallelisms between the mentioned economic domains and some phenomena and processes from physics, especially from thermodynamics, solid state physics (the grow of crystals and thin policrystalline layers etc.), electromagnetism etc.
In this review, we discuss the impact of the development of lasers on ultracold atoms and molecules and their applications. After a brief historical review of laser cooling and Bose-Einstein condensation, we present important applications of ultra cold atoms, including time and frequency metrology, atom interferometry and inertial sensors, atom lasers, simulation of condensed matter systems, production and study of strongly correlated systems, and production of ultracold molecules.
The aim of this paper is a short survey of models and methods that developed by the authors. These models and methods are used to optimize general networks with nonlinear non-convex restrictions and objectives possessing mixed continuous-discrete optimization variables. There are discussed the problem formulations and solution methods for simulation, optimization, sensitivity and stability analysis for flow with nonlinear potential in general networks. These problems and the developed methods and programs have industrial application e.g. by gas networks.
Let (X, d) be a complete metric space, and let S, T : X to CB(X) be a duality of multi-valued generalized weak contraction mappings or a duality of generalized weak contraction mappings. We discuss the common fixed points and endpoints of the two kinds of multi-valued weak mappings. Our results extend and improve some results given by Daffer and Kaneko (1995), Rouhani and Moradi (2010), and Moradi and Khojasteh (2011).
Analysis how to use Internet influence to the process of political communication, marketing and the management of public relations, what kind of online communication methods are used by political parties, and to assess satisfaction, means of communication and the services they provide to their partys voters (people) and other interest groups and whether social networks can affect the political and economic changes in the state, and the political power of one party.
Analysis how to use Internet influence to the process of political communication, marketing and the management of public relations, what kind of online communication methods are used by political parties, and to assess satisfaction, means of communication and the services they provide to their partys voters (people) and other interest groups and whether social networks can affect the political and economic changes in the state, and the political power of one party.
Analysis how to use Internet influence to the process of political communication, marketing and the management of public relations, what kind of online communication methods are used by political parties, and to assess satisfaction, means of communication and the services they provide to their party's voters (people) and other interest groups and whether social networks can affect the political and economic changes in the state, and the political power of one party.
D0 provides a wealth of measurements conceived for probing perturbative and non-perturbative aspects of QCD, giving an accurate experimental account for Standard Model production processes including jets, leptons and photons and improving the sensitivity and the understanding in searches for new physics. Among the most important subjects are inclusive jet production, vector boson plus jet production, direct photon production and measurements in Minimum Bias events and Double Parton Scattering which are discussed here and compared to theory predictions.
The work presents the brief exposition of the proof (in ZF) of inaccessible cardinals nonexistence. To this end in view there is used the apparatus of subinaccessible cardinals and its basic tools -- reduced formula spectra and matrices and matrix functions and others. Much attention is devoted to the explicit and substantial development and cultivation of basic ideas, serving as grounds for all main constructions and reasonings
We present new 6 and 3-cm radio-continuum maps of the Small Magellanic Cloud (SMC), created with the "peeling" technique and a joint deconvolution. The maps have resolutions of 30" and 20" and r.m.s. noise of 0.7 and 0.8 mJy/beam at 6 and 3 cm, respectively. These maps will be used for future studies of the SMC's radio source population and overall extended structure.
This book is a regular textbook of analytical geometry covering vector algebra and its applications to describing straight lines, planes, and quadrics in two and three dimensions. The stress is made on vector algebra by using skew-angular coordinates and by introducing some notations and prerequisites for understanding tensors. The book is addressed to students specializing in mathematics, physics, engineering, and technologies and to students of other specialities where educational standards require learning this subject.
The beautiful theory of statistical gambling, started by Dubins and Savage (for subfair games) and continued by Kelly and Breiman (for superfair games) has mostly been studied under the unrealistic assumption that we live in a continuous world, that money is indefinitely divisible, and that our life is indefinitely long. Here we study these fascinating problems from a purely discrete, finitistic, and computational, viewpoint, using Both Symbol-Crunching and Number-Crunching (and simulation just for checking purposes).
Given a graph G and integers b and w. The black-and-white coloring problem asks if there exist disjoint sets of vertices B and W with ;B;=b and ;W;=w such that no two vertices x in B and y in W are adjacent. In this paper we show that the problem is polynomial when restricted to permutation graphs and, more generally, to circle graphs.
The Milky Way's dwarf spheroidal satellites include the nearest, smallest and least luminous galaxies known. They also exhibit the largest discrepancies between dynamical and luminous masses. This article reviews the development of empirical constraints on the structure and kinematics of dSph stellar populations and discusses how this phenomenology translates into constraints on the amount and distribution of dark matter within dSphs. Some implications for cosmology and the particle nature of dark matter are discussed, and some topics/questions for future study are identified.
Collimation of proton and antiproton beams in the Tevatron collider is required to protect CDF and D0 detectors and minimize their background rates, to keep irradiation of superconducting magnets under control, to maintain long-term operational reliability, and to reduce the impact of beam-induced radiation on the environment. In this article we briefly describe the design, practical implementation and performance of the collider collimation system, methods to control transverse and longitudinal beam halo and two novel collimation techniques tested in the Tevatron.
Starting in 2008 the H1 and ZEUS experiments have been combining their data in order to provide the most complete and accurate set of deep-inelastic data as the legacy of HERA. The present review presents these combinations, both published and preliminary, and explores how they have been used to give information on the structure of the proton. The HERAPDF parton distribution functions (PDFs) are presented and compared with other current PDFs and with data from the Tevatron and LHC colliders.
Computer technology and data processing swept both society and the sciences like a wave in the latter half of the 20th century. We trace the AAVSO's usage of computational and data processing technology from its beginnings in 1967, through 1997. We focus on equipment, people, and the purpose such computational power was put to, and compare and contrast the organization's use of hardware and software with that of the wider industry.
We present a categorical model for intuitionistic linear logic where objects are polynomial diagrams and morphisms are simulation diagrams. The multiplicative structure (tensor product and its adjoint) can be defined in any locally cartesian closed category, whereas the additive (product and coproduct) and exponential Tensor-comonoid comonad) structures require additional properties and are only developed in the category Set, where the objects and morphisms have natural interpretations in terms of games, simulation and strategies.
In this work, we follow Kim and Yamada (JHEP1107 (2011) 120) and utilize AdS in light-cone frame to derive thermodynamic and transport properties of two kinds of Schr\"{o}dinger black holes with hyperscaling violation. In that case, we show entropy and temperature are depend on $\theta$. In $\theta=0$ we see our results are agree with the work of Kim and Yamada. We also construct R-charged black hole with hyperscaling violation and obtain thermodynamics and transport properties.
We review current experimental results on charm mixing and CP violation. We survey experimental techniques, including time-dependent, time-independent, and quantum-correlated measurements. We review techniques that use a slow pion tag from D*+ --> pi+ D0 + c.c. decays and those that do not, and cover two-body and multi-body D0 decay modes. We provide a summary of D-mixing results to date and comment on future experimental prospects at the LHC and other new or planned facilities.
We analyse neutrino-induced reactions in the small $Q^2$ region and for energies covering the production and decay of the delta resonance. One of our results is the agreement with the MiniBooNE data for $1\pi^+$ and $1\pi^0$ final states. In addition we present differential cross sections for charged and neutral currents and for proton and neutron targets. Finally, we present cross sections induced by muon and electron type neutrinos, where effects of the lepton masses are visible.
This paper introduces two constructions of Legendrian submanifolds, called the Legendrian product and spinning, and computes their classical invariants, the Thurston-Bennequin invariant and the Maslov class, in R^{2n+1}. These constructions take two Legendrians K,L and returns a product K x L, they generalize other previous constructions in contact topology, such as frontspinning and hypercube tori, and are equivalent in R^{2n+1}. Interestingly, this construction relies upon the explicit embeddings of K,L and not their Legendrian isotopy classes.
We review the stamp folding problem, the number of ways to fold a strip of $n$ stamps, and the related problem of enumerating meander configurations. The study of equivalence classes of foldings and meanders under symmetries allows to characterize and enumerate folding and meander shapes. Symmetric foldings and meanders are described, and relations between folding and meandric sequences are given. Extended tables for these sequences are provided.
Let A={a_1,a_2,...,a_s} and {b_1,b_2,...,b_t} with s+r=n, the many to many point matching with demands and capacities matches each point a_i in A to at least alpha_i and at most alpha_i points in B, and each point b_j in B to at least beta_j and at most beta_j points in A for all 1 <= i <= s and 1 <= j <= t. In this paper, we present an O(n^4) time and O(n) space algorithm for this problem.
The aim of this paper is to investigate the fundamental problems of retardation and radiation caused by non-uniformly moving point sources using the theories of electrodynamics and elastodynamics. This paper investigates and compares the retarded electromagnetic fields and the retarded elastodynamic fields. For the non-uniform motion of a general point source, the Li\'enard-Wiechert type potentials and the radiation and nonradiation fields are derived for a point charge and for a point force.
In the literature, two approaches to the Weierstrass representation formula using spinors are known, one explicit, going back to Kusner & Schmitt, and generalized by Konopelchenko and Taimanov, and one abstract due to Friedrich, Bayard, Lawn and Roth. In this article, we show that both points of view are indeed equivalent, for surfaces in R^3, Nil_3 and R^4. The correspondence between the equations of both approaches is explicitly given and as a consequence we derive alternate (and simpler) proofs of these previous theorems.
Both pulsation and mass loss are commonly observed in stars and are important ingredients for understanding stellar evolution and structure, especially for massive stars. There is a growing body of evidence that pulsation can also drive and enhance mass loss in massive stars and that pulsation-driven mass loss is important for stellar evolution. In this review, I will discuss recent advances in understanding pulsation driven mass loss in massive main sequence stars, classical Cepheids and red supergiants and present some challenges remaining.
Rotational and radial velocities have been measured for 1589 evolved stars of spectral types F, G and K and luminosity classes IV, III, II and Ib, based on observations carried out with the CORAVEL spectrometers. The precision in radial velocity is better than 0.30 km/s per observation, whereas rotational velocity uncertainties are typically 1.0 km/s for subgiants and giants and 2.0 km/s for class II giants and Ib supergiants.
We establish several relations between quantum error correction (QEC) and tensor network (TN) methods of quantum many-body physics. We exhibit correspondences between well-known families of QEC codes and TNs, and demonstrate a formal equivalence between decoding a QEC code and contracting a TN. We build on this equivalence to propose a new family of quantum codes and decoding algorithms that generalize and improve upon quantum polar codes and successive cancellation decoding in a natural way.
In the past decade, coupled-cluster theory has seen a renaissance in nuclear physics, with computations of neutron-rich and medium-mass nuclei. The method is efficient for nuclei with product-state references, and it describes many aspects of weakly bound and unbound nuclei. This report reviews the technical and conceptual developments of this method in nuclear physics, and the results of coupled-cluster calculations for nucleonic matter, and for exotic isotopes of helium, oxygen, calcium, and some of their neighbors.
We consider scenarios of gravitino LSP and DM with stop NLSP both within R-parity conserving and R-parity violating supersymmetry (RPC and RPV SUSY, respectively). We discuss cosmological bounds from Big Bang Nucleosynthesis (BBN) and the gravitino abundance and then concentrate on the signals of long-lived stops at the LHC as displaced vertices or metastable particles. Finally we discuss how to distinguish R-parity conserving and R-parity breaking stop decays if they happen within the detector and suppress SM backgrounds.
The conduction and selectivity of calcium/sodium ion channels are described in terms of ionic Coulomb blockade, a phenomenon based on charge discreteness and an electrostatic model of an ion channel. This novel approach provides a unified explanation of numerous observed and modelled conductance and selectivity phenomena, including the anomalous mole fraction effect and discrete conduction bands. Ionic Coulomb blockade and resonant conduction are similar to electronic Coulomb blockade and resonant tunnelling in quantum dots. The model is equally applicable to other nanopores.
We consider Gaussian mixture models in high dimensions and concentrate on the twin tasks of detection and feature selection. Under sparsity assumptions on the difference in means, we derive information bounds and establish the performance of various procedures, including the top sparse eigenvalue of the sample covariance matrix and other projection tests based on moments, such as the skewness and kurtosis tests of Malkovich and Afifi (1973), and other variants which we were better able to control under the null.
Approximation sequences and derived equivalences occur frequently in the research of mutation of tilting objects in representation theory, algebraic geometry and noncommutative geometry. In this paper, we introduce symmetric approximation sequences in additive categories and weakly $n$-angulated categories which include (higher) Auslander-Reiten sequences (triangles) and mutation sequences in algebra and geometry,and show that such sequences always give rise to derived equivalences between the quotient rings of endomorphism rings of objects in the sequences modulo some ghost and coghost ideals.
Recursive, causal and non-causal, multidimensional digital filters, with infinite impulse responses and maximally flat magnitude and delay responses in the low-frequency region, are designed to negate correlated clutter and interference in the background and to accumulate power due to dim targets in the foreground of a surveillance sensor. Expressions relating mean impulse-response duration, frequency selectivity and group delay, to low-order linear-difference-equation coefficients are derived using discrete Laguerre polynomials and discounted least-squares regression, then verified through simulation.
In this paper we introduce a new multivariate dependence measure based on comonotonicity by means of product moment which motivated by the recent papers of Koch and Schepper (ASTIN Bulletin 41 (2011) 191-213) and Dhaene et al. (Journal of Computational and Applied Mathematics 263 (2014) 78-87). Some differences and relations between the new dependence measure and other multivariate measures are an- alyzed. We also give several characteristics of this measure and estimations based on the definitions and its property are presented.
We discuss moderate resolution spectra, multicolor photometry, and light curves of thirty-one of the most luminous stars and variables in the giant spiral M101. The majority are intermediate A to F-type supergiants. We present new photometry and light curves for three known "irregular blue variables" V2, V4 and V9) and identify a new candidate. Their spectra and variability confirm that they are LBV candidates and V9 may be in an LBV-like maximum light state or eruption.
This is position paper accepted to the Computational Science & Engineering Software Sustainability and Productivity Challenges (CSESSP Challenges) Workshop, sponsored by the Networking and Information Technology Research and Development (NITRD) Software Design and Productivity (SDP) Coordinating Group, held October 15th-16th 2015 in Washington DC, USA. It discusses the role recommendation systems, based on textual and structural information in source code, and further enhanced by mining related applications, can have in improving the portability of scientific and engineering software.
The paper suggests a new stochastic model for energy producing, dispatching, and storing in the multi-battery setting that takes into account the topology of the system of the links between the batteries, the transmission and storage losses, and requirements for special regimes for batteries charging and discharging helping to prolong batteries life. For this model, the problem of optimal energy storing and dispatching is considered and solved using dynamic programming and duality methods.
In this paper is clarify the summaries codes for programmers through three-dimensional shapes, and clearly programmers and developers, scholars and researchers in the field of software engineering, as well as researchers from the representative about threedimensional forms. Through a three-dimensional drawing on a Maya scripts which are based on drawing shapes and three-dimensional stereoscopic show every part of the code, for example, classes, methods, coherence and homogeneity , In these drawings and show clearly and useful.
Confluence is a critical property of computational systems which is related with determinism and non ambiguity and thus with other relevant computational attributes of functional specifications and rewriting system as termination and completion. Several criteria have been explored that guarantee confluence and their formalisations provide further interesting information. This work discusses topics and presents personal positions and views related with the formalisation of confluence properties in the Prototype Verification System PVS developed at our research group.
In this paper we propose an extension of the Lasry-Lions price formation model which includes fluctuations of the numbers of buyers and vendors. We analyze the model in the case of deterministic and stochastic market size fluctuations and present results on the long time asymptotic behavior and numerical evidence and conjectures on periodic, almost periodic and stochastic fluctuations. The numerical simulations extend the theoretical statements and give further insights into price formation dynamics.
In this paper we consider the nonparametric estimation of density and regression functions with non-negative support using a gamma kernel procedure introduced by Chen (2000). Strong uniform consistency and asymptotic normality of the corresponding estimators are established under a general ergodic assumption on the data generation process. Our results generalize those of Shi and Song (2016), obtained in the classic i.i.d. framework, and the works of Bouezmarni and Rombouts (2008, 2010b) and Gospodinov and Hirukawa (2007) for mixing time series.
Song and dance are a traditional means of strengthening culture and passing knowledge to successive generations in the Torres Strait of northeastern Australia. Dances incorporate a range of apparatuses to enhance the performance, such as dance machines (Zamiyakal) and headdresses (Dhari). The dances, songs, headdresses and dance machines work together to transfer important knowledge about subsistence survival, social structure, and cultural continuity. This paper explores how celestial phenomena inspire and inform music and dance.
We have established novel integral representations of the Riemann zeta-function and Dirichlet eta-function based on powers of trigonometric functions and digamma function, and then use these representations to find close forms of Laurent series expansions of these same powers of trigonometric functions and digamma function. The so obtained series can be used to find numerous summation rules for certain values of the Riemann zeta and related functions and numbers, such as e.g. Bernoulli and Euler numbers.
The structural and compositional stabilities of two dimensional 2D Bi2Te3 and Bi2Se3 nanocrystals, produced by both colloidal synthesis and by liquid phase exfoliation, were studied by in situ transmission electron microscopy TEM during annealing at temperatures between 350 and 500 C. The sublimation process induced by annealing is structurally and chemically anisotropic and takes place through the preferential dismantling of the prismatic 011-0 type planes, and through the preferential sublimation of Te or Se.
The paper deals with using chaos to direct trajectories to targets and analyzes ruggedness and fractality of the resulting fitness landscapes. The targeting problem is formulated as a dynamic fitness landscape and four different chaotic maps generating such a landscape are studied. By using a computational approach, we analyze properties of the landscapes and quantify their fractal and rugged characteristics. In particular, it is shown that ruggedness measures such as correlation length and information content are scale-invariant and self-similar.
Nature of extrinsic and intrinsic self-trapping (ST) of charge carriers in cuprates have been studied theoretically. The binding energies and radii of the extrinsic and intrinsic large polarons and bipolarons in cuprates are calculated variationally using the continuum model and adiabatic approximation. We have shown that the extrinsic and intrinsic three-dimensional (3D) large bipolarons exist in underdoped cuprates at $\eta=\varepsilon_{\infty}/\varepsilon_0<0.127$ and $\eta<0.138$, respectively [where $\varepsilon_{\infty}$ ($\varepsilon_0$) is the optic (static) dielectric constant].
We introduce Lipschitz functions on a finite partially ordered set $P$ and study the associated Lipschitz polytope $L(P)$. The geometry of $L(P)$ can be described in terms of descent-compatible permutations and permutation statistics that generalize descents and big ascents. For ranked posets, Lipschitz polytopes are centrally-symmetric and Gorenstein, which implies symmetry and unimodality of the statistics. Finally, we define $(P,k)$-hypersimplices as generalizations of classical hypersimplices and give combinatorial interpretations of their volumes and $h^*$-vectors.
Given an arbitrary field K and non-zero scalars a and b, we give necessary and sufficient conditions for a matrix A in M_n(K) to be a linear combination of two idempotents with coefficients a and b. This extends results previously obtained by Hartwig and Putcha in two ways: the field K considered here is arbitrary (possibly of characteristic 2), and the case a is different from b and -b is taken into account.
We clarified the connection between measurements and partitions, and discussed the meaning of semiotics for measurements based on functions. The terms of property and relation quantity were defined by our understanding of partitions and functions. Farther more, we discussed correspondences established between two quantities, and the theorems of complete set based on it. Finally, we presented the structure which can afford the obligation of general system, and also the definitions of subsystem and isomorphism.
Service-oriented infrastructures pose new challenges in a number of areas, notably with regard to security and dependability. BT has developed a combination of innovative security solutions and governance frameworks that can address these challenges. They include advances in identity federation; distributed usage and access management; context-aware secure messaging, routing and transformation; and (security) policy governance for service-oriented architectures. This paper discusses these developments and the steps being taken to validate their functionality and performance.
We present a review of the interplay between the evolution of circumstellar disks and the formation of planets, both from the perspective of theoretical models and dedicated observations. Based on this, we identify and discuss fundamental questions concerning the formation and evolution of circumstellar disks and planets which can be addressed in the near future with optical and infrared long-baseline interferometers. Furthermore, the importance of complementary observations with long-baseline (sub)millimeter interferometers and high-sensitivity infrared observatories is outlined.
We extend a recent approach to describe the $B^0$ and $B^0_s$ decays into $J/\psi$ $f_0(500)$ and $J/\psi$ $f_0(980)$, relating it to the $B^0$ and $B^0_s$ decays into $J/\psi$ and a vector meson, $\phi$, $\rho$, $K^*$. In addition the $B^0$ and $B^0_s$ decays into $J/\psi$ and $\kappa(800)$ are evaluated and compared to the $K^*$ vector production. The rates obtained are in agreement with available experiment while predictions are made for the $J/\psi$ plus $\kappa(800)$ decay.
This guide is intended to knit together, and extend, the existing PP and C documentation on PDL internals. It draws heavily from prior work by the authors of the code. Special thanks go to Christian Soeller, and Tuomas Lukka, who together with Glazebrook conceived and implemented PDL and PP; and to Chris Marshall, who has led the PDL development team through several groundbreaking releases and to new levels of usability.
To develop a better understanding of energy transfer between wind and different types of waves a model was created to determine growth factors and energy transfers on breaking waves and the resulting velocity vectors. This model was used to build on the research of Sajjadi et al. (1996) on the growth of waves by sheared flow and takes models of wave velocities developed by Weber and Melsom (1993) and end energy transfer by Sajjadi, Hunt and Drullion (2014).
This paper is a Reply paper to the Comment paper by Mondaini et.al. [arXiv:1711.06279]. We first distinguish the diagonal and the off-diagonal eigenstate thermalization hypothesis (ETH) in each sector and in the whole Hilbert space, and then clarify their properties and their roles in thermalization. We argue that our formulation of the ETH in our letter is a standard and natural one in the context of thermalization, and that our results are qualitatively new and unexpected.
We show how certain diffeomorphism-invariant functionals on differential forms in dimensions 6,7 and 8 generate in a natural way special geometrical structures in these dimensions: metrics of holonomy G2 and Spin(7), metrics with weak holonomy SU(3) and G2, and a new and unexplored example in dimension 8. The general formalism becomes a practical tool for calculating homogeneous or cohomogeneity one examples, and we illustrate this with some newly discovered cases of Spin(7) and G2 metrics.
This paper describes the application of statistical methods to political polling data in order to look for correlations and memory effects. We propose measures for quantifying the political memory using the correlation function and scaling analysis. These methods reveal time correlations and self-affine scaling properties respectively, and they have been applied to polling data from Norway. Power-law dependencies have been found between correlation measures and party size, and different scaling behaviour has been found for large and small parties.
A package for pattern recognition and PID by COMPASS RICH-1 has been developed and used for the analysis of COMPASS data collected in the years 2002 to 2004, and 2006-2007 with the upgraded RICH-1 photon detectors. It has allowed the full characterization of the detector in the starting version and in the upgraded one, as well as the PID for physics results. We report about the package structure and algorithms, and the detector characterization and PID results.
The structure theory of finite real spectral triples developed by Krajewski and by Paschke and Sitarz is generalised to allow for arbitrary KO-dimension and the failure of orientability and Poincare duality, and moduli spaces of Dirac operators for such spectral triples are defined and studied. This theory is then applied to recent work by Chamseddine and Connes towards deriving the finite spectral triple of the noncommutative-geometric Standard Model.
We give an extension to certain \textit{RD-space} $\X$, i.e space of homogeneous type in the sense of Coifman and Weiss, which has the reverse doubling property, of the definition and various properties of the product of functions in $\BMO(\X)$ and $\H^{1}(\X)$, and functions in Lipschitz space $\Lambda_{\frac{1}{p}-1}(\X)$ and $\H^{p}(\X)$ for $p\in(\frac{\n}{\n+\theta},1]$, where $\n$ and $\theta$ denote respectively the "dimension" and the order of $\X$
Observations and models of solar prominences are reviewed. We focus on non-eruptive prominences, and describe recent progress in four areas of prominence research: (1) magnetic structure deduced from observations and models, (2) the dynamics of prominence plasmas (formation and flows), (3) Magneto-hydrodynamic (MHD) waves in prominences and (4) the formation and large-scale patterns of the filament channels in which prominences are located. Finally, several outstanding issues in prominence research are discussed, along with observations and models required to resolve them.
Spin accumulation and spin transfer torques induced by Spin Hall Effect in bi-layer structures comprising ferromagnetic and paramagnetic materials are theoretically investigated. The charge and spin diffusion equations taking into account spin-flip and spin Hall effect are formulated and solved analytically and numerically for in structures with simplified and complex geometry, respectively. It is demonstrated that spin torques could be efficiently produced by means of Spin Hall effect which may be further enhanced by modifying structure geometry.
Let n\geq3 and J_{n}:=circ(J_{1},J_{2},...,J_{n}) and j_{n}:=\circ(j_{0},j_{1},...,j_{n-1}) be the n\timesn circulant matrices, associated with the nth Jacobsthal number J_{n} and the nth Jacobsthal-Lucas number j_{n}, respectively. The determinants of J_{n} and j_{n} are obtained in terms of the Jacobsthal and Jacobsthal-Lucas numbers. These imply that J_{n} and j_{n} are invertible. We also derive the inverses of J_{n} and j_{n}.
We study a simple group chase and escape model by introducing new parameters with which configurations of chasing and escaping in groups are classified into three characteristic patterns. In particular, the parameters distinguish two essential configurations: a one-directional formation of chasers and escapees, and an escapee surrounded by chasers. In addition, pincer movements and aggregating processes of chasers and escapees are also quantified. Appearance of these configurations highlights efficiency of hunting during chasing and escaping.
Savage and Sagan have recently defined a notion of st-Wilf equivalence for any permutation statistic st and any two sets of permutations $\Pi$ and $\Pi'$. In this paper we give a thorough investigation of st-Wilf equivalence for the charge statistic on permutations and use a bijection between the charge statistic and the major index to prove a conjecture of Dokos, Dwyer, Johnson, Sagan and Selsor regarding powers of 2 and the major index.
SaVi, a program for visualizing satellite orbits, movement, and coverage, is maintained at the University of Surrey. This tool has been used for research in academic papers, and by industry companies designing and intending to deploy satellite constellations. It has also proven useful for demonstrating aspects of satellite constellations and their geometry, coverage and movement for educational and teaching purposes. SaVi is introduced and described briefly here.
This paper examines some methods and ideas underlying the author's successful probabilistic learning systems(PLS), which have proven uniquely effective and efficient in generalization learning or induction. While the emerging principles are generally applicable, this paper illustrates them in heuristic search, which demands noise management and incremental learning. In our approach, both task performance and learning are guided by probability. Probabilities are incrementally normalized and revised, and their errors are located and corrected.
In colloid and nanoparticle chemistry, particle size, shape, crystallinity, surface morphology and composition are controlled by employing the mechanisms of burst nucleation, diffusional growth, aggregation, or their combinations. Here we review and survey practical examples of recently developed methods for preparing metal colloids and nanoparticles for industrial applications such as photovoltaics, catalysis, and consumer electronics. We discuss relevant theoretical models, many of which are general, and identify growth mechanisms that play a major role in other systems and applications as well.
Hideki Yukawa, Sin-itiro Tomonaga and Shoichi Sakata pioneered nuclear and particle physics and left enduring legacies. Their friendly collaboration and severe competition laid the foundation to bring up the active postwar generation of nuclear and particle physicists in Japan. In this presentation we illustrate milestones of nuclear and particle physics in Japan from 1930's to mid-1940's which have been clarified in Yukawa Hall Archival Library, Tomonaga Memorial Room and Sakata Memorial Archival Library.
We show that programmable heating and salting share the same effect on the frequency shift of the O:H and the H-O stretching phonons of the O:H-O hydrogen bond, which revealed that both heating and salting lengthens and softens the O:H bond and shortens and stiffens the H-O bond due to the weakening of the Coulomb repulsion between electron pairs of adjacent oxygen atoms. Understanding provides possible mechanism for the Hofmeister series and the detergent effect on cloth cleaning.
In this report, we present work towards a framework for modeling and checking behavior of spatially distributed component systems. Design goals of our framework are the ability to model spatial behavior in a component oriented, simple and intuitive way, the possibility to automatically analyse and verify systems and integration possibilities with other modeling and verification tools. We present examples and the verification steps necessary to prove properties such as range coverage or the absence of collisions between components and technical details.
We sample some Poincare-Birkhoff-Witt theorems appearing in mathematics. Along the way, we compare modern techniques used to establish such results, for example, the Composition-Diamond Lemma, Groebner basis theory, and the homological approaches of Braverman and Gaitsgory and of Polishchuk and Positselski. We discuss several contexts for PBW theorems and their applications, such as Drinfeld-Jimbo quantum groups, graded Hecke algebras, and symplectic reflection and related algebras.
We derive quantum field theory Ward identities based on linear area preserving and conformal transformations in 2+1 dimensions. The identities relate Hall viscosities, Hall conductivities and the angular momentum. They apply both for relativistic and non relativistic systems, at zero and at finite temperature. We consider systems with or without translation invariance, and introduce an external magnetic field and viscous drag terms. A special case of the identities yields the well known relation between the Hall conductivity and half the angular momentum density.
Motivated by a range of applications in engineering and genomics, we consider in this paper detection of very short signal segments in three settings: signals with known shape, arbitrary signals, and smooth signals. Optimal rates of detection are established for the three cases and rate-optimal detectors are constructed. The detectors are easily implementable and are based on scanning with linear and quadratic statistics. Our analysis reveals both similarities and differences in the strategy and fundamental difficulty of detection among these three settings.
In my thesis, I first develop the theoretical basis and tools for the use of helicity and duality in the study, understanding and engineering of interactions between electromagnetic radiation and material systems. Then, within the general framework of symmetries and conservation laws, I apply the theoretical results to several different problems: Optical activity, zero backscattering, metamaterials for transformation optics and nanophotonics phenomena involving the electromagnetic angular momentum. The tool has provided new insights and design guidelines in all these cases.
We introduce a level-set formulation for the mean curvature flow with obstacles and show existence and uniqueness of a viscosity solution. These results generalize a well known viscosity approach for the mean curvature flow without obstacle by Evans and Spruck and Chen, Giga and Goto in 1991. In addition, we show that this evolution is consistent with the variational scheme introduced by Almeida, Chambolle and Novaga (2012) and we study the long time behavior of our viscosity solutions.
This paper introduces new reduction and torsion codes for an octonary code and determines their basic properties. These could be useful for the classification of self-orthogonal and self dual codes over $\mathbb{Z}_8$. We also focus our attention on covering radius problem of octonary codes. In particular, we determine lower and upper bounds of the covering radius of several classes of Repetition codes, Simplex codes of Type $\alpha$ and Type $\beta$ and their duals, MacDonald codes, and Reed-Muller codes over $\mathbb{Z}_8$.
We propose a novel and easy-to-implement joint location-scale association testing procedure that can account for complex genetic architecture without explicitly modeling interaction effects, and is suitable for large-scale whole-genome scans and meta-analyses. We focus on Fisher's method and use it to combine evidence from the standard location test and the more recent scale test, and we describe its use for single-variant, gene-set and pathway association analyses.
The evolution of both information and energy technology is intimately connected to complex condensed matter systems, the properties of which are determined by electronic and chemical interactions and processes on a broad range of length and time scales. Dedicated photoelectron spectroscopy and spectromicroscopy experiments can provide important insights. We discuss some recent methodological developments with application to relevant questions in spintronics, and towards in-operando studies of resistive switching and electrochemical processes.
Recently, several authors have studied the degenerate Bernoulli and Euler polynomials and given some intersting identities of those polynomials. In this paper, we consider the degenerate Bell numbers and polynomials and derive some new identities of those numbers and polynomials associated with special numbers and polynomials. In addition, we investigate some properties of the degenerate Bell polynomials which are derived by using the notion of composita. From our investigation, we give some new relations between the degenerate Bell polynomials and the special polynomials.
This paper focuses on services and applications provided to mobile users using airborne computing infrastructure. We present concepts such as drones-as-a-service and fly-in,fly-out infrastructure, and note data management and system design issues that arise in these scenarios. Issues of Big Data arising from such applications, optimising the configuration of airborne and ground infrastructure to provide the best QoS and QoE, situation-awareness, scalability, reliability, scheduling for efficiency, interaction with users and drones using physical annotations are outlined.
The (static) energy momentum tensor, angular momentum tensor and scaling flux vector of micropolar elasticity are derived within the framework of Noether's theorem on variational principles. Certain balance (or broken conservation) laws of broken translational, rotational and dilatational symmetries are found including inhomogeneities, elastic anisotropy, body forces, body couples and dislocations and disclinations present. The non-conserved J-, L- and M-integrals of micropolar elasticity are derived and discussed. We give explicit formulae for the configurational forces, moments and work terms.
Antiproton--proton annihilation into light mesons is revisited in the few GeV energy domain, in view of a global description of the existing data. An effective meson model is developed, with mesonic and baryonic degrees od freedom in $s$, $t$, and $u$ channels. Regge factors are added to reproduce the proper energy behavior and the forward and backward peaked behavior. A comparison with existing data and predictions for angular distributions and energy dependence are done for charged and neutral pion pair production.
In this proceedings, we report the latest results of J/psi and Upsilon production from the STAR experiment at RHIC, in different colliding systems and colliding energies. J/psi nuclear modification factors (R_{AA}) in Au+Au collisions at 200, 62.4 and 39 GeV and in U+U collisions at 193 GeV, Upsilon R_{AA} in d+Au and Au+Au collisions at 200 and in U+U collisions at 193 GeV are shown and compared to different theoretical models. We also present prospects of quarkonium measurements at STAR.
One the base of Maxwell and Dirac equations the one biquaternionic model of electro-gravimagnetic (EGM) fields is considered. The closed system of biquaternionic wave equations is constructed for determination of free system of electric and gravimagnetic charges and currents and generated by them EGM-field. By using generalized functions theory the fundamental and regular solutions of this system are determined and some of them are considered (spinors, plane waves, shock EGMwaves and others). The properties of these solutions are investigated.
Annotated datasets are commonly used in the training and evaluation of tasks involving natural language and vision (image description generation, action recognition and visual question answering). However, many of the existing datasets reflect problems that emerge in the process of data selection and annotation. Here we point out some of the difficulties and problems one confronts when creating and validating annotated vision and language datasets.
The MAterials Simulation Toolkit (MAST) is a workflow manager and post-processing tool for ab initio defect and diffusion workflows. MAST codifies research knowledge and best practices for such workflows, and allows for the generation and management of easily modified and reproducible workflows, where data is stored along with workflow information for data provenance tracking. MAST is open-source and available for download (see PDF for links).
Let $\gamma(G)$ and $i(G)$ be the domination number and the independent domination number of $G$, respectively. In 1977, Hedetniemi and Mitchell began with the comparison of of $i(G)$ and $\gamma(G)$ and recently Rad and Volkmann posted a conjecture that $i(G)/ \gamma(G) \leq \Delta(G)/2$, where $\Delta(G)$ is the maximum degree of $G$. In this work, we prove the conjecture for trees and provide the graph achieved the sharp bound.
AARC (Authentication and Authorisation for Research Communities) is a two-year EC-funded project to develop and pilot an integrated cross-discipline authentication and authorisation framework, building on existing authentication and authorisation infrastructures (AAIs) and production federated infrastructure. AARC also champions federated access and offers tailored training to complement the actions needed to test AARC results and to promote AARC outcomes. This article describes a high-level blueprint architectures for interoperable AAIs.
In this paper, we will provide a comparison between uniform and random sampling for speech and music signals. There are various sampling and recovery methods for audio signals. Here, we only investigate uniform and random schemes for sampling and basic low-pass filtering and iterative method with adaptive thresholding for recovery. The simulation results indicate that uniform sampling with cubic spline interpolation outperforms other sampling and recovery methods.
This editorial from the PASP Special Focus Issue "Techniques and Methods for Astrophysical Data Visualization" summarizes contributions from authors, their software and tutorials, video abstracts, and 3D content. PASP and IOP have made this Focus Issue an ongoing project and will continue accepting submissions throughout 2017. For more information and to view the video abstract visit: http://iopscience.iop.org/journal/1538-3873/page/Techniques-and-Methods-for-Astrophysical-Data-Visualization
America's transportation infrastructure is the backbone of our economy. A strong infrastructure means a strong America - an America that competes globally, supports local and regional economic development, and creates jobs. Strategic investments in our transportation infrastructure are vital to our national security, economic growth, transportation safety and our technology leadership. This document outlines critical needs for our transportation infrastructure, identifies new technology drivers and proposes strategic investments for safe and efficient air, ground, rail and marine mobility of people and goods.
The sums of floor functions have been studied by Jacobsthal, Carlitz, Grimson, and Tverberg. More recently, Onphaeng and Pongsriiam proved some sharp upper and lower bounds for the sums of Jacobsthal and Tverberg. In this paper, we devise concise formulas for the sums and then use it to give proofs of the upper and lower bounds that were claimed by Tverberg. Furthermore, we present conjectural lower and upper bounds for these sums.
These lecture notes for a graduate course cover generalized derivative concepts useful in deriving necessary optimality conditions and numerical algorithms for nondifferentiable optimization problems in inverse problems, imaging, and PDE-constrained optimization. Treated are convex functions and subdifferentials, Fenchel duality, monotone operators and resolvents, Moreau--Yosida regularization, proximal point and (some) first-order splitting methods, Clarke subdifferentials, and semismooth Newton methods. The required background from functional analysis and calculus of variations is also briefly summarized.
We review in detail modern numerical methods used in the determination and solution of Bethe-Salpeter and Dyson--Schwinger equations. The algorithms and techniques described are applicable to both the rainbow-ladder truncation and its non-trivial extensions. We discuss pedagogically the steps involved in constructing conventional mesons and baryons as systems of two- and three-quarks respectively. As further application we describe the self-consistent calculation of form-factors and highlight the challenges that remain therein.
Nucleon-structure calculations of isovector vector- and axialvector-current form factors, transversity and scalar charge, and quark momentum and helicity fractions are reported from two recent 2+1-flavor dynamical domain-wall fermions lattice-QCD ensembles generated jointly by the RIKEN-BNL-Columbia and UKQCD Collaborations with Iwasaki $\times$ dislocation-suppressing-determinatn-ratio gauge action at inverse lattice spacing of 1.378(7) GeV and pion mass values of 249.4(3) and 172.3(3) MeV.
We investigate Mahonian and Eulerian probability distributions given by inversions and descents in general finite Coxeter groups. We provide uniform formulas for the means and variances in terms of Coxeter group data in both cases. We also provide uniform formulas for the double-Eulerian probability distribution of the sum of descents and inverse descents. We finally establish necessary and sufficient conditions for general sequences of Coxeter groups of increasing rank under which Mahonian and Eulerian probability distributions satisfy central and local limit theorems.
In this paper we establish optimal local and global Besov-Lipschitz and Triebel-Lizorkin estimates for the solutions to linear hyperbolic partial differential equations. These estimates are based on local and global estimates for Fourier integral operators that span all possible scales (and in particular both Banach and quasi-Banach scales) of Besov-Lipschitz spaces $B^s_{p,q}(\R^n)$, and certain Banach and quasi-Banach scales of Triebel-Lizorkin spaces $F^s_{p,q}(\R^n)$
This paper analyzes relations between pattern avoidance of certain permutations and graphs on staircase grids and boundary grids, and proves two conjectures posed by Bean, Tannock, and Ulfarsson (2015). More specifically, this paper enumerates a certain family of staircase encodings and proves that the downcore graph, a certain graph established on the boundary grid, is pure if and only if the permutation corresponding to the boundary grid avoids the classical patterns 123 and 2143.
We derive the Boltzmann equation for the rotranslational dynamics of an arbitrary convex rigid body in a rarefied gas. It yields as a limiting case the Fokker-Planck equation accounting for friction, diffusion, and nonconservative drift forces and torques. We provide the rotranslational friction and diffusion tensors for specular and diffuse reflection off particles with spherical, cylindrical, and cuboidal shape, and show that the theory describes thermalization, photophoresis, and the inverse Magnus effect in the free molecular regime.
Different modes of advance of a pipe with a soil plug under rectangular impulse are investigated numerically and analytically with regard to dry friction between the pipe and plug and between the pipe and external stationary medium. The two model solutions are compared with and without regard to the pipe and plug elasticity. It is shown that elasticity of the pipe and plug is neglectable in case of a long-duration impulse.
We discuss different applications and potentials of reciprocal bianisotropic metasurfaces including uniform and gradient metasurfaces, in particular, with anisotropic, chiral, and omega properties. Based on an analytic analysis, we discuss the necessary conditions to observe asymmetric co- and cross- polarization reflection and/or transmission, polarization conversion and rotation, asymmetric absorption, etc. We consider two kinds of incident wave scenarios based on linear and circular polarization.
This paper provides a new method to solve analytic interpolation problems with rationality and derivative constraints, occurring in many applications to system and control. It is based on the covariance extension equation previously proposed by Byrnes and Lindquist in a different context. A complete solution for the scalar problem is provided, and a homotopy continuation method is presented and applied to some problems in modeling and robust control. Some numerical examples illustrate robustness and efficiency of the proposed procedure.
This paper describes the development of iEnvironment, an open science software platform that supports monitoring and modeling of aspects of surface water. The platform supports science and engineering research, especially in the context of the creation, sharing, analysis and maintenance of big and open data. In this era of big data, iEnvironment facilitates access to open data resources and research collaboration among science and research disciplines supported by computer scientists and software developers.
A complete and improved calculation of phase space factors (PSF) for $2\nu\beta^+\beta^+$ and $0\nu\beta^+\beta^+$ decay, as well as for the competing modes $2\nu EC\beta^+$, $0\nu EC\beta^+$, and $2\nu ECEC$, is presented. The calculation makes use of exact Dirac wave functions with finite nuclear size and electron screening and includes life-times, single and summed positron spectra, and angular positron correlations.
The hydrogen sorption performance of V55Ti21Cr17Fe7 and V55Ti21Mn17Fe7 alloys and their ribbons were evaluated by pressure composition temperature tests. Their hydrogen absorption kinetic properties were studied through hydrogen absorption curves. The crystallographic structures and microstructure of these alloys and ribbons before hydrogen absorption and after hydrogen desorption PCT tests were identified by Xray diffraction and Scanning electron microscopy analysis, respectively. Hydrogen storage characteristics of such materials were investigated by volumetric method using Sieverts type apparatus and gravimetric method with suspension balance.
This chapter gives an introduction to low-energy beam transport systems, and discusses the typically used magnetostatic elements (solenoid, dipoles and quadrupoles) and electrostatic elements (einzel lens, dipoles and quadrupoles). The ion beam emittance, beam space-charge effects and the physics of ion source extraction are introduced. Typical computer codes for analysing and designing ion optical systems are mentioned, and the trajectory tracking method most often used for extraction simulations is described in more detail.
WSN is formed by autonomous nodes with partial memory, communication range, power, and bandwidth. Their occupation depends on inspecting corporal and environmental conditions and communing through a system and performing data processing. The application field is vast, comprising military, ecology, healthcare, home or commercial and require a highly secured communication. The paper analyses different types of attacks and counterattacks and provides solutions for the WSN threats
We classify all N=2 rigid supersymmetric backgrounds in four dimensions with both Lorentzian and Euclidean signature that preserve eight real supercharges, up to discrete identifications. Among the backgrounds we find specific warpings of S^3 x R and AdS_3 x R, AdS_2 x S^2 and H^2 x S^2 with generic radii, and some more exotic geometries. We provide the generic two-derivative rigid vector and hypermultiplet actions and analyze the conditions imposed on the special Kahler and hyperkahler target spaces.
We generalize the Gubser solution of viscous hydrodynamics by including the finite density effect and analytically compute the flow harmonics $v_n$. We explicitly show how $v_n$ and their viscous corrections depend on the chemical potential. The difference in $v_n$ between particles and antiparticles is also analytically computed and shown to be proportional to various chemical potentials and the viscosity. Excellent agreement is obtained between the results and the available experimental data from the SPS, RHIC and the LHC.
Diagrammatic representation and manipulation of tensor networks has proven to be a useful tool in mathematics, physics, and computer science. Here we present several important and mostly well-known theorems regarding the dualities between linear maps and bipartite pure quantum states, and the dualities between quantum channels and bipartite mixed quantum states, in diagrammatic form. The graphical presentation makes the proofs very compact and in some cases even intuitive.
We classify all possible fractional charge vortices of charge less than unity in spin-1 and spin-2 polar and cyclic Bose-Einstein condensates (BECs) with zero magnetization. Statics and dynamics of these vortices in quasi-two-dimensional spinor BECs are studied employing accurate numerical solution and a Lagrange variational approximation. The results for density and collective-mode oscillation are illustrated using fractional-charge BEC vortex of $^{23}$Na and $^{87}$Rb atoms with realistic interaction and trapping potential parameters.
Relevance of the M\"ossbauer spectroscopy in the study of harmonically modulated electronic structures i.e. spin-density waves (SDWs) and charge-density waves (CDWs) is presented and discussed. First, the effect of various parameters pertinent to the SDWs and CDWs is outlined on simulated 119Sn spectra and distributions of the hyperfine field and the isomer shift. Next, various examples of the 119Sn spectra measured on single-crystals and polycrystalline samples of Cr and Cr-V are reviewed.
This paper proposes a novel multifunctional sensing platform based on multimode planar photonic crystals (PPCs). We analytically and numerically demonstrate that the reflection spectrum of PPCs exhibits multiple high-Q resonant modes, and the fundamental and higher-order modes respond distinctively to external mechanical and thermal perturbations, rendering the PPCs superior capability for detection and discrimination of multiple parameters. We further demonstrate simultaneous pressure and temperature sensing with a PPC sensor. Other advantages of PPC sensors include on-chip integration and wafer-scale fabrications.
This article continues our recent publication [I.A. Baburin and D.M. Proserpio and V.A. Saleev and A.V. Shipilova, Phys. Chem. Chem. Phys.17, 1332 (2015)] where we have presented a comprehensive computational study of sp3 carbon allotropes based on the topologies proposed for zeolites. Here we predict six new silicon and six new germanium allotropes which have the same space group symmetries and topologies as those predicted earlier for the carbon allotropes, and study their structural, elastic, vibrational, electronic and optical properties.
The basic features of some of the most versatile and popular open source frameworks for machine learning (TensorFlow, Deep Learning4j, and H2O) are considered and compared. Their comparative analysis was performed and conclusions were made as to the advantages and disadvantages of these platforms. The performance tests for the de facto standard MNIST data set were carried out on H2O framework for deep learning algorithms designed for CPU and GPU platforms for single-threaded and multithreaded modes of operation.
In this paper we offer an overview on the topic of Microservices Science and Engineering (MSE) and we provide a collection of bibliographic references and links relevant to understand an emerging field. We try to clarify some misunderstandings related to microservices and Service-Oriented Architectures, and we also describe projects and applications our team have been working on in the recent past, both regarding programming languages construction and intelligent buildings.
This paper is mainly a semi-tutorial introduction to elementary algebraic topology and its applications to Ising-type models of statistical physics, using graphical models of linear and group codes. It contains new material on systematic (n,k) group codes and their information sets; normal realizations of homology and cohomology spaces; dual and hybrid models; and connections with system-theoretic concepts such as observability, controllability, and input/output realizations.
In this paper we have defined the language theoretical properties of Parallel languages and series parallel languages. Parallel languages and Series parallel languages play vital roles in parallel processing and many applications in computer programming. We have defined regular expressions and context free grammar for parallel and series parallel languages based on sequential languages [2]. We have also discussed the recognizability of parallel and series parallel languages using regular expression and regular grammar.
We present an elementary, self-contained proof of Grothendieck's inequality that unifies the real and complex cases and yields both the Krivine and Haagerup bounds, the current best-known explicit bounds for the real and complex Grothendieck constants respectively. This article is intended to be pedagogical, combining and streamlining known ideas of Lindenstrauss--Pe{\l}czy\'nski, Krivine, and Haagerup into a proof that need only univariate calculus, basic complex variables, and a modicum of linear algebra as prerequisites.
We review and classify stochastic processes without detailed balance condition. We obtain stationary distributions and investigate their stability in terms of generalized entropic divergences beyond the Kullback-Leibler formula. A simple stochastic model with local growth rates and direct resetting to the ground state is investigated and applied to various networks, scientific citations and Facebook popularity, hadronic yields in high energy particle reactions, income and wealth distributions, biodiversity and settlement size distribution.
We consider a class of models of neutrino mixing with $S_4$ flavour symmetry and generalised CP symmetry, broken to $Z_2$ and $Z_2 \times {\rm CP}$ residual symmetries in the charged lepton and neutrino sectors, respectively. In this scheme, and up to discrete ambiguities, the neutrino mixing matrix is determined by two angles and one phase. We classify the phenomenologically viable mixing patterns, deriving predictions for the Dirac and Majorana CPV phases and for the effective Majorana mass in neutrinoless double beta decay.
In the present paper, multiscale systems of polynomial wavelets on an n-dimensional sphere are constructed. Scaling functions and wavelets are investigated,and their reproducing and localization properties and positive definiteness are examined. Decomposition and reconstruction algorithms for the wavelet transform are presented. Formulae for variances in space and momentum domain, as well as for the uncertainty product, of zonal functions over n-dimensional spheres are derived and applied to the scaling functions.
We propose scalable methods to execute counting queries in machine learning applications. To achieve memory and computational efficiency, we abstract counting queries and their context such that the counts can be aggregated as a stream. We demonstrate performance and scalability of the resulting approach on random queries, and through extensive experimentation using Bayesian networks learning and association rule mining. Our methods significantly outperform commonly used ADtrees and hash tables, and are practical alternatives for processing large-scale data.
In this work we provide a self-contained and modern introduction to some of the tools, obstacles and open questions arising in string compactifications. Techniques and current progress are illustrated in the context of smooth heterotic string compactifications to 4-dimensions. Progress is described on bounding and enumerating possible string backgrounds and their properties. We provide an overview of constructions, partial classifications, and moduli problems associated to Calabi-Yau manifolds and holomorphic bundles over them.
Cyberspace is being more and more tightly linked to the physical space and socioeconomic space to emerge a cyber-physical-socioeconomic space, where humans, machines and physical objects in the natural environment interact with each other, efficiently share resources and co-evolve to emerge cyber-physical-social patterns from different spaces. The complex space provides a new reality for experiencing, understanding, thinking and making intelligent decisions. Various links, mappings, and flows bridge and extend the existing understandings to render Cyber-Physical-Socioeconomic Intelligence.
This article does the most general treatment of modulation in Polarization fields. We have considered both linear polarization fields Q and U & also scalar polarization modes E and B. We have shown that any arbitrary modulation in Q and U is allowed but the same can't be done in case of E and B fields. This result also gives a mathematical justification that the masking can only be applied to the Q and U fields and never to E and B fields.
Let a and b be any two elements in the group Zn of integers modulo n. Then a and b are called independent if O(a) not equal to O(b) . In this paper, we introduce and study independent graph of the group Zn, denoted by IG(Zn), is undirected simple graph whose vertex set is Zn and two distinct vertices a and b are adjacent in IG(Zn) if and only if a and b are independent in Zn.
In this paper, the concept of Musielak N-functions and Musielak-Orlicz spaces generated by them well be introduced. Facts and results of the measure theory will be applied to consider properties, calculus and basic approximation of Musielak N-functions and their Musielak-Orlicz spaces. Finally, the relationship between Musielak N-functions and Musielak-Orlicz functions and thier Musielak-Orlicz spaces will be considered using facts and results of the measure theory too
We study the potential of future lepton colliders, running at the Z-pole and above, and the High-Luminosity LHC to search for the relaxion and other light scalars $\phi$. We investigate the interplay of direct searches and precision observables for both CP-even and -odd couplings. In particular, precision measurements of exotic Z-decays, Higgs couplings, the exotic Higgs decay into a relaxion pair and associated $Z\phi$ and $\gamma \phi$ production are promising channels to yield strong bounds.
Harmonic, Geometric, Arithmetic, Heronian and Contraharmonic means have been studied by many mathematicians. In 2003, H. Evens studied these means from geometrical point of view and established some of the inequalities between them in using a circle and its radius. In 1961, E. Beckenback and R. Bellman introduced several inequalities corresponding to means. In this paper, we will introduce the concept of mean functions and integral means and give bounds on some of these mean functions and integral means.
Graphene is an ideal 2D material system bridging electronic and photonic devices. It also breaks the fundamental speed and size limits by electronics and photonics, respectively. Graphene offers multiple functions of signal transmission, emission, modulation, and detection in a broad band, high speed, compact size, and low loss. Here, we have a brief view of graphene based functional devices at microwave, terahertz, and optical frequencies. Their fundamental physics and computational models were discussed as well.
Reinforcement learning (RL) tasks are challenging to implement, execute and test due to algorithmic instability, hyper-parameter sensitivity, and heterogeneous distributed communication patterns. We argue for the separation of logical component composition, backend graph definition, and distributed execution. To this end, we introduce RLgraph, a library for designing and executing reinforcement learning tasks in both static graph and define-by-run paradigms. The resulting implementations are robust, incrementally testable, and yield high performance across different deep learning frameworks and distributed backends.
These notes are a considerably revised and expanded version of expository lectures given at the Fields Institute Workshop on "Nonlinear Dispersive Partial Differential Equations and Inverse Scattering" in August 2017. We give a complete and self-contained treatment of inverse scattering for the defocussing cubic NLS in one-dimension, following the 2003 paper of Deift and Zhou, and the defocussing Davey-Stewartson equation in two space dimensions, following the work of Perry and more recent work of Nachman, Regev, and Tataru.
The cyberspace and development of intelligent systems using Artificial Intelligence (AI) creates new challenges to computer professionals, data scientists, regulators and policy makers. For example, self-driving cars raise new technical, ethical, legal and public policy issues. This paper proposes a course named Computers, Ethics, Law, and Public Policy, and suggests a curriculum for such a course. This paper presents ethical, legal, and public policy issues relevant to building and using intelligent systems.
Reduction formulas for sums of products of hypergeometric functions can be traced back to Euler. This topic has an intimate connection to summation and transformation formulas, contiguous relations and algebraic properties of the (generalized) hypergeometric differential equation. Over recent several years, important discoveries have been made in this subject by Gorelov, Ebisu, Beukers and Jouhet and Feng, Kuznetsov and Yang. In this paper, we give a generalization of Feng, Kuznetsov and Yang identity covering also Ebisu's and Gorelov's formulas as particular cases.
Halfway between the experiment and the focus group, between the quiz and a game, we have experienced a new format to "focus" on sustainability and the fundamental laws of thermodynamics and its principles. Concepts as reversibility, efficiency and entropy, are then "visualized" by the participants, showing the relations with the economic value, waste, the energetics budget and raw material costs are explained from a different point of view, proving the physical limits to the economic growth and the environmental exploitation.
Progress in stellar precise radial velocity work will require the stellar, exoplanetary, and instrument scientists in the precise RV community to be better engaged with the heliophysics community. This engagement will require funding for close collaboration among statisticians, heliophysicists, instrument builders, and stellar astronomers, dedicated meetings where the communities can learn about each other and interact inperson, and computational and observational resources to generate the appropriate synthetic and real data sets to drive and prove theoretical understanding of RV jitter.
Building dialogue systems that naturally converse with humans is being an attractive and an active research domain. Multiple systems are being designed everyday and several datasets are being available. For this reason, it is being hard to keep an up-to-date state-of-the-art. In this work, we present the latest and most relevant retrieval-based dialogue systems and the available datasets used to build and evaluate them. We discuss their limitations and provide insights and guidelines for future work.
In this position paper, we elaborate on the possibilities and needs to integrate Design Thinking into Requirements Engineering. We draw from our research and project experiences to compare what is understood as Design Thinking and Requirements Engineering considering their involved artifacts. We suggest three approaches for tailoring and integrating Design Thinking and Requirements Engineering with complementary synergies and point at open challenges for research and practice.
Normalizing Flows are generative models which produce tractable distributions where both sampling and density evaluation can be efficient and exact. The goal of this survey article is to give a coherent and comprehensive review of the literature around the construction and use of Normalizing Flows for distribution learning. We aim to provide context and explanation of the models, review current state-of-the-art literature, and identify open questions and promising future directions.
We present a unified approach to $L^p$-solutions ($p > 1$) of multidimensional backward stochastic differential equations (BSDEs) driven by L\'evy processes and more general filtrations. New existence, uniqueness and comparison results are obtained. The generator functions obey a time-dependent extended monotonicity (Osgood) condition in the $y$-variable and have general growth in $y$. Within this setting, the results generalize those of Royer (2006), Yin and Mao (2008), Yao (2017), Kruse and Popier (2016/2017) and Geiss and Steinicke (2018).
Human pluripotent stem cells hold great promise for developments in regenerative medicine and drug design. The mathematical modelling of stem cells and their properties is necessary to understand and quantify key behaviours and develop non-invasive prognostic modelling tools to assist in the optimisation of laboratory experiments. Here, the recent advances in the mathematical modelling of hPSCs are discussed, including cell kinematics, cell proliferation and colony formation, and pluripotency and differentiation.
We derive all heat kernel coefficients for Laplacians acting on scalars, vectors, and tensors on fully symmetric spaces, in any dimension. Final expressions are easy to evaluate and implement, and confirmed independently using spectral sums and the Euler-Maclaurin formula. We also obtain the Green's function for Laplacians acting on transverse traceless tensors in any dimension, and new integral representations for heat kernels using known eigenvalue spectra of Laplacians. Applications to quantum gravity and the functional renormalisation group, and other, are indicated.
We report ultrasound beam steering based on 2D and 3D flattened acoustic metamaterial Luneburg lenses at 40 kHz. The effective properties of the lenses are obtained by using the quasi-conformal transformation (QCT) technique and solving the Laplace equation with Dirichlet and Neumann boundary conditions. A 2D lens and a 3D lens were designed and fabricated. The numerical and experimental results with these lenses demonstrate excellent beam steering performance of ultrasonic waves in both near field and far field.
We introduce the notion of a stochastic probabilistic program and present a reference implementation of a probabilistic programming facility supporting specification of stochastic probabilistic programs and inference in them. Stochastic probabilistic programs allow straightforward specification and efficient inference in models with nuisance parameters, noise, and nondeterminism. We give several examples of stochastic probabilistic programs, and compare the programs with corresponding deterministic probabilistic programs in terms of model specification and inference. We conclude with discussion of open research topics and related work.
Given a finite-dimensional algebra $\Lambda$ and $A \geqslant 1$, we construct a new algebra $\tilde{\Lambda}_A$, called the stretched algebra, and relate the homological properties of $\Lambda$ and $\tilde{\Lambda}_A$. We investigate Hochschild cohomology and the finiteness condition (Fg), and use stratifying ideals to show that $\Lambda$ has (Fg) if and only if $\tilde{\Lambda}_A$ has (Fg). We also consider projective resolutions and apply our results in the case where $\Lambda$ is a $d$-Koszul algebra for some $d \geqslant 2$.
A general reaction-diffusion equation with spatiotemporal delay and homogeneous Dirichlet boundary condition is considered. The existence and stability of positive steady state solutions are proved via studying an equivalent reaction-diffusion system without nonlocal and delay structure and applying local and global bifurcation theory. The global structure of the set of steady states is characterized according to type of nonlinearities and diffusion coefficient. Our general results are applied to diffusive logistic growth models and Nicholson's blowflies type models.
The basic concepts of exterior calculus for space-time multivectors are presented: interior and exterior products, interior and exterior derivatives, oriented integrals over hypersurfaces, circulation and flux of multivector fields. Two Stokes theorems relating the exterior and interior derivatives with circulation and flux respectively are derived. As an application, it is shown how the exterior-calculus space-time formulation of the electromagnetic Maxwell equations and Lorentz force recovers the standard vector-calculus formulations, in both differential and integral forms.
Trapping electrons in quantum dots and controlling their collective quantum states is crucial for converting semiconductor structures into bits of quantum information processing. Here, we study single- and two-particle states in quantum dots formed in gapped bilayer graphene (BLG), where the electron's valley states appear in pair with their spin quantum number and we analyse spin- and valley-singlet and triplet states for various BLG and dot parameters, as well as two-particle interaction strength and external magnetic field.
We introduce jiant, an open source toolkit for conducting multitask and transfer learning experiments on English NLU tasks. jiant enables modular and configuration-driven experimentation with state-of-the-art models and implements a broad set of tasks for probing, transfer learning, and multitask training experiments. jiant implements over 50 NLU tasks, including all GLUE and SuperGLUE benchmark tasks. We demonstrate that jiant reproduces published performance on a variety of tasks and models, including BERT and RoBERTa. jiant is available at https://jiant.info.
NEMETODE, a network of low-light video cameras in and around the British Isles, operated in conjunction with the BAA Meteor Section and other groups, monitors the activity of meteors, enabling the precision measurement of radiant positions and the altitudes and geocentric velocities of meteoroids and their solar system orbits. The results from observations of the Quadrantid and December alpha Draconid meteor showers during 2012-2019 are presented and discussed.
In this paper, we propose a new statistical inference method for massive data sets, which is very simple and efficient by combining divide-and-conquer method and empirical likelihood. Compared with two popular methods (the bag of little bootstrap and the subsampled double bootstrap), we make full use of data sets, and reduce the computation burden. Extensive numerical studies and real data analysis demonstrate the effectiveness and flexibility of our proposed method. Furthermore, the asymptotic property of our method is derived.
The use of automated guided vehicles (AGVs) has played a pivotal role in manufacturing and distribution operations, providing reliable and efficient product handling. In this project, we constructed a deep learning-based pallets detection and tracking architecture for pallets detection and position tracking. By using data preprocessing and augmentation techniques and experiment with hyperparameter tuning, we achieved the result with 25% reduction of error rate, 28.5% reduction of false negative rate, and 20% reduction of training time.
Let $P$ and $Q$ be polynomials in one variable over an algebraically closed field $k$ of characteristic zero. Let $f$ and $g$ be elements of a function field $\K$ over $k$ such that $P(f)=Q(g).$ We give conditions on $P$ and $Q$ such that the height of $f$ and $g$ can be effectively bounded, and moreover, we give sufficient conditions on $P$ and $Q$ under which $f$ and $g$ must be constant.
This paper is a fundamental study of comodules and contramodules over a comonoid in a closed monoidal category. We study both algebraic and homotopical aspects of them. Algebraically, we enrich the comodule and contramodule categories over the original category, construct enriched functors between them and enriched adjunctions between the functors. Homotopically, for simplicial sets and topological spaces, we investigate the categories of comodules and contramodules and the relations between them.
We present a simple, accessible, yet rigorous outreach/educational program focused on quantum information science and technology for high-school and early undergraduate students. This program allows students to perform meaningful hands-on calculations with quantum circuits and algorithms, without requiring knowledge of advanced mathematics. A combination of pen-and-paper exercises and IBM Q simulations helps students understand the structure of quantum gates and circuits, as well as the principles of superposition, entanglement, and measurement in quantum mechanics.
We describe techniques and specifications of MATLAB software to process ambulatory electrocardiogram (ECG) data. Through template-based beat identification and simple pattern recognition models on the intervals between regular heart beats, we filter noisy sections of waveform and ectopic beats. Our end-to-end process can be used towards analysis of ECG and calculation of heart rate variability metrics after beat adjustments, removals and interpolation. Classification and noise detection is assessed on the human-annotated MIT-BIH Arrythmia and Noise Stress Test Databases.
Joint communications and sensing (JCS) can improve the efficiency of power, bandwidth and hardware usage. The conflict between communications and sensing is analyzed in terms of bandwidth and power. It is found that the bandwidth is approximately partitioned between communication and sensing, thus making an almost zero-sum game, while the conflict in the power is marginal. The same conclusion holds when the receiver and target are separated. The feasible region and tradeoff boundary of JCS are obtaine.
We present a kinetic model for optical pumping in Lu$^+$ and Lr$^+$ ions as well as a theoretical approach to calculate the transport properties of Lu$^+$ in its ground $^1S_0$ and metastable $^3D_1$ states in helium background gas. Calculations of the initial ion state populations, the field and temperature dependence of the mobilities and diffusion coefficients, and the ion arrival time distributions demonstrate that the ground- and metastable-state ions can be collected and discriminated efficiently under realistic macroscopic conditions.
In this paper, we study Dorroh extensions of bialgebras and Hopf algebras. Let $(H,I)$ be both a Dorroh pair of algebras and a Dorroh pair of coalgebras. We give necessary and sufficient conditions for $H\ltimes_dI$ to be a bialgebra and a Hopf algebra, respectively. We also describe all ideals of Dorroh extensions of algebras and subcoalgebras of Dorroh extensions of coalgebras and compute these ideals and subcoalgebras for some concrete examples.
Let $T=(A,M,0,B)$ be a triangular matrix algebra with its corner algebras $A$ and $B$ Artinian and $_AM_B$ an $A$-$B$-bimodule. The 2-recollement structures for singularity categories and Gorenstein defect categories over $T$ are studied. Under mild assumptions, we provide necessary and sufficient conditions for the existences of 2-recollements of singularity categories and Gorenstein defect categories over $T$ relative to those of $A$ and $B$. Parts of our results strengthen and unify the corresponding work in [27,28,34].
In this paper, we propose a minimum set of concepts and signals needed to track the social state during Human-Robot Interaction. We look into the problem of complex continuous interactions in a social context with multiple humans and robots, and discuss the creation of an explainable and tractable representation/model of their social interaction. We discuss these representations according to their representational and communicational properties, and organize them into four cognitive domains (scene-understanding, behaviour-profiling, mental-state, and dialogue-grounding).
This thesis develops a new divergence that generalizes relative entropy and can be used to compare probability measures without a requirement of absolute continuity. We establish properties of the divergence, and in particular derive and exploit a representation as an infimum convolution of optimal transport cost and relative entropy. We include examples of computation and approximation of the divergence, and its applications in uncertainty quantification in discrete models and Gauss-Markov models.
This paper describes Strike on Stage, an interface and corresponding audio-visual performance work developed and performed in 2010 by percussionists and media artists Chi-Hsia Lai and Charles Martin. The concept of Strike on Stage is to integrate computer visuals and sound into an improvised percussion performance. A large projection surface is positioned directly behind the performers, while a computer vision system tracks their movements. The setup allows computer visualisation and sonification to be directly responsive and unified with the performers' gestures.
Let A and B be two commutative semisimple Frechet algebras. We first give a characterization of the multiplier algebra of the direct sum of A and B. We then prove that A \oplus B is a BSE-algebra if and only if A and B are BSE-algebras. Furthermore, for a closed ideal I of A, we study multipliers of ideals and quotient algebras of A and show that I and A/I are BSE-algebras, under certain conditions.
A biologically plausible low-order model (LOM) of biological neural networks is a recurrent hierarchical network of dendritic nodes/trees, spiking/nonspiking neurons, unsupervised/ supervised covariance/accumulative learning mechanisms, feedback connections, and a scheme for maximal generalization. These component models are motivated and necessitated by making LOM learn and retrieve easily without differentiation, optimization, or iteration, and cluster, detect and recognize multiple/hierarchical corrupted, distorted, and occluded temporal and spatial patterns.
This report aggregates the papers presented at the twenty-first annual Scheme and Functional Programming Workshop, hosted on August 28th, 2020, online and co-located with the twenty-fifth International Conference on Functional Programming. The Scheme and Functional Programming Workshop is held every year to provide an opportunity for researchers and practitioners using Scheme and related functional programming languages like Racket, Clojure, and Lisp, to share research findings and discuss the future of the Scheme programming language.
Basic definitions and properties of nearly associative algebras are described. Nearly associative algebras are proved to be Lie-admissible algebras. Two-dimensional nearly associative algebras are classified, and its main classes are derived. The bimodules, matched pairs and Manin triple of a nearly associative algebras are derived and their equivalence with nearly associative bialgebras is proved. Basic definitions and properties of nearly Hom-associative algebras are described. Related bimodules and matched pairs are given, and associated identities are established.
Phishing attacks have evolved and increased over time and, for this reason, the task of distinguishing between a legitimate site and a phishing site is more and more difficult, fooling even the most expert users. The main proposals focused on addressing this problem can be divided into four approaches: List-based, URL based, content-based, and hybrid. In this state of the art, the most recent techniques using web content-based and hybrid approaches for Phishing Detection are reviewed and compared.
Machine learning, artificial intelligence, and deep learning have advanced significantly over the past decade. Nonetheless, humans possess unique abilities such as creativity, intuition, context and abstraction, analytic problem solving, and detecting unusual events. To successfully tackle pressing scientific and societal challenges, we need the complementary capabilities of both humans and machines. The Federal Government could accelerate its priorities on multiple fronts through judicious integration of citizen science and crowdsourcing with artificial intelligence (AI), Internet of Things (IoT), and cloud strategies.
We introduce a data augmentation technique based on byte pair encoding and a BERT-like self-attention model to boost performance on spoken language understanding tasks. We compare and evaluate this method with a range of augmentation techniques encompassing generative models such as VAEs and performance-boosting techniques such as synonym replacement and back-translation. We show our method performs strongly on domain and intent classification tasks for a voice assistant and in a user-study focused on utterance naturalness and semantic similarity.
Efficient identity management system has become one of the fundamental requirements for ensuring safe, secure, and transparent use of identifiable information and attributes. FIdM allows users to distribute their identity information across security domains which increase the portability of their digital identities. However, it also raises new architectural challenges and significant security and privacy issues that need to be mitigated. In this paper, we presented the limitations and risks in Federated Identity Management system and discuss the results and proposed solutions.
We consider deterministic infinite horizon optimal control problems with nonnegative stage costs. We draw inspiration from learning model predictive control scheme designed for continuous dynamics and iterative tasks, and propose a rollout algorithm that relies on sampled data generated by some base policy. The proposed algorithm is based on value and policy iteration ideas, and applies to deterministic problems with arbitrary state and control spaces, and arbitrary dynamics. It admits extensions to problems with trajectory constraints, and a multiagent structure.
IEEE's 1012 Standard for independent software and hardware verification and validation (IV&V) is under attack in U.S. federal criminal court. As software spreads through the criminal legal system, scientists, engineers, and IEEE have an essential role in ensuring courts understand and respect IEEE 1012 and IV&V. If scientists, engineers, and IEEE do not engage, courts will continue to allow unreliable scientific evidence to deprive people of their life and liberty.
Symmetries and, in particular, Cartan (Noether) symmetries and conserved quantities (conservation laws) are studied for the multisymplectic formulation of first and second order Lagrangian classical field theories. Noether-type theorems are stated in this geometric framework. The concept of gauge symmetry and its geometrical meaning are also discussed in this formulation. The results are applied to study Noether and gauge symmetries for the multisymplectic description of the electromagnetic and the gravitational theory; in particular, the Einstein--Hilbert and the Einstein--Palatini approaches.
Our analysis reviews and visualizes the audio features and popularity of songs streamed on Spotify*. Our dataset, downloaded from Kaggle and originally sourced from Spotify API, consists of multiple Excel files containing information relevant to our visualization and regression analysis. The exercise seeks to determine the connection between the popularity of the songs and the danceability. Insights to be included and factored as part of our analysis include song energy, valence, BPM, release date, and year.
For smooth convex disks $A$, i.e., convex compact subsets of the plane with non-empty interior, we classify the classes $G^{\text{hom}}(A)$ and $G^{\text{sim}}(A)$ of intersection graphs that can be obtained from homothets and similarities of $A$, respectively. Namely, we prove that $G^{\text{hom}}(A)=G^{\text{hom}}(B)$ if and only if $A$ and $B$ are affine equivalent, and $G^{\text{sim}}(A)=G^{\text{sim}}(B)$ if and only if $A$ and $B$ are similar.
We synthesize the reported results and recommendations of recent workshops and seminars that convened to discuss open questions within the important intersection of robotics, human-robot interaction, and spoken dialogue systems research. The goal of this growing area of research interest is to enable people to more effectively and naturally communicate with robots. To carry forward opportunities networking and discussion towards concrete, potentially fundable projects, we encourage interested parties to consider participating in future virtual and in-person discussions and workshops.
In the novel stoichiometric iron-based material RbEuFe4As4 superconductivity coexists with a peculiar long-range magnetic order of Eu 4f states; their coexistance is puzzling and represents a challenge for both experiment and theory. Using angle-resolved photoemission spectroscopy, resonant photoemission spectroscopy, Andreev reflection spectroscopy and scanning tunneling spectroscopy we have addressed this puzzle and unambigously shown that Fe- and Eu-derived states are largely decoupled and that superconducting and a long range magnetic orders exist almost independently from each other.
We present preliminary results for strange and charm contributions to nucleon charges and moments. The scalar, axial and tensor charges, and unpolarized first moments are calculated using clover-on-HISQ formulation and cover four lattice spacings, $a=\{0.06,0.09,0.12, 0.15\}$~fm, and three pion masses, $M_\pi=\{310,220,130\}$~MeV. The renormalization factors are calculated nonperturbatively using the RI-sMOM scheme. We carry out a chiral and continuum extrapolation to obtain physical results.
The overarching goal of the Information and Decision Science (IDS) Lab is to enhance understanding of complex systems and establish a holistic, multifaceted approach using scalable data and informatics to developing rigorous mathematical models and decentralized control algorithms for making engineering complex systems able to realize how to improve their performance over time while interacting with their environment. The emphasis is on applications related to connected and automated vehicles (CAVs), sociotechnical systems, energy and sustainable systems, smart cities and connected communities.
Recently, a boxology (graphical language) with design patterns for hybrid AI was proposed, combining symbolic and sub-symbolic learning and reasoning. In this paper, we extend this boxology with actors and their interactions. The main contributions of this paper are: 1) an extension of the taxonomy to describe distributed hybrid AI systems with actors and interactions; and 2) showing examples using a few design patterns relevant in multi-agent systems and human-agent interaction in general and, specifically, in the manufacturing domain.
In this paper, we define and develop a cohomology and deformation theories of Jacobi-Jordan algebras. We construct a cohomology based on two operators, called zigzag cohomology, and detail the low degree cohomology spaces. We describe the relationships between first and second cohomology groups with extensions and deformations. Moreover, we consider cohomology properties of pseudo-euclidean Jacobi-Jordan algebras and provide a deformation theory that fits with our zigzag cohomology of Jacobi-Jordan algebras. Furthermore, the paper includes several examples and applications.
We present dust features and masses observed in young supernova remnants (SNRs) with Spitzer IRS mapping and staring observations of four youngest supernova remnants: SNR 1E102.2-7219 (E0102) in the SMC, Cas A and G11.2-0.3 in our Galaxy, and N132D in the LMC. The spectral mapping data revealed a number of dust features which include 21 micron-peak dust and featureless dust in Cas A and 18-micron peak dust in E0102 and N132D. The 18 micron-peak feature is fitted by a mix of MgSiO$_3$ and solid Si dust grains, while the 21-micron peak dust is by a mix of silicates and FeO; we also explore dust fitting using Continuous Distribution of Ellipsoid grain models. We report detection of CO fundamental band from Cas A in near-infrared. We review dust features observed and identified in other SNRs. The dust emission is spatially correlated with the ejecta emission, showing dust is formed in SN ejecta. The spectra of E0102 show rich gas lines from ejecta including strong ejecta lines of Ne and O, including two [Ne III] lines and two [Ne V] lines which allow us to diagnostic density and temperature of the ejecta and measure the ejecta masses. E0102 and N132D show weak or lacking Ar, Si, and Fe ejecta, whereas the young Galactic SNR Cas A show strong Ar, Si, and S and weak Fe. We discuss compositions and masses of dust and association with those of ejecta and finally, dust contribution from SNe to early Universe.
The International Federation of Pigment Cell Societies (IFPCS) held its XXIII triennial International Pigment Cell Conference (IPCC) in Denver, Colorado in August 2017. The goal of the summit was to provide a venue promoting a vibrant interchange among leading basic and clinical researchers working on leading-edge aspects of melanocyte biology and disease. The philosophy of the meeting, entitled Breakthroughs in Pigment Cell and Melanoma Research, was to deliver a comprehensive program in an inclusive environment fostering scientific exchange and building new academic bridges. This document provides an outlook on the history, accomplishments, and sustainability of the pigment cell and melanoma research community. Shared progress in the understanding of cellular homeostasis of pigment cells but also clinical successes and hurdles in the treatment of melanoma and dermatological disorders continue to drive future research activities. A sustainable direction of the societies creates an international forum identifying key areas of imminent needs in laboratory research and clinical care and ensures the future of this vibrant, diverse and unique research community at the same time. Important advances showcase wealth and breadth of the field in melanocyte and melanoma research and include emerging frontiers in melanoma immunotherapy, medical and surgical oncology, dermatology, vitiligo, albinism, genomics and systems biology, precision bench-to-bedside approaches, epidemiology, pigment biophysics and chemistry, and evolution. This report recapitulates highlights of the federate meeting agenda designed to advance clinical and basic research frontiers from melanoma and dermatological sciences followed by a historical perspective of the associated societies and conferences.
Clients are increasingly looking for fast and effective means to quickly and frequently survey and communicate the condition of their buildings so that essential repairs and maintenance work can be done in a proactive and timely manner before it becomes too dangerous and expensive. Traditional methods for this type of work commonly comprise of engaging building surveyors to undertake a condition assessment which involves a lengthy site inspection to produce a systematic recording of the physical condition of the building elements, including cost estimates of immediate and projected long-term costs of renewal, repair and maintenance of the building. Current asset condition assessment procedures are extensively time consuming, laborious, and expensive and pose health and safety threats to surveyors, particularly at height and roof levels which are difficult to access. This paper aims at evaluating the application of convolutional neural networks (CNN) towards an automated detection and localisation of key building defects, e.g., mould, deterioration, and stain, from images. The proposed model is based on pre-trained CNN classifier of VGG-16 (later compaired with ResNet-50, and Inception models), with class activation mapping (CAM) for object localisation. The challenges and limitations of the model in real-life applications have been identified. The proposed model has proven to be robust and able to accurately detect and localise building defects. The approach is being developed with the potential to scale-up and further advance to support automated detection of defects and deterioration of buildings in real-time using mobile devices and drones.
Advances in multicore processors and accelerators have opened the flood gates to greater exploration and application of machine learning techniques to a variety of applications. These advances, along with breakdowns of several trends including Moore's Law, have prompted an explosion of processors and accelerators that promise even greater computational and machine learning capabilities. These processors and accelerators are coming in many forms, from CPUs and GPUs to ASICs, FPGAs, and dataflow accelerators. This paper surveys the current state of these processors and accelerators that have been publicly announced with performance and power consumption numbers. The performance and power values are plotted on a scatter graph and a number of dimensions and observations from the trends on this plot are discussed and analyzed. For instance, there are interesting trends in the plot regarding power consumption, numerical precision, and inference versus training. We then select and benchmark two commercially-available low size, weight, and power (SWaP) accelerators as these processors are the most interesting for embedded and mobile machine learning inference applications that are most applicable to the DoD and other SWaP constrained users. We determine how they actually perform with real-world images and neural network models, compare those results to the reported performance and power consumption values and evaluate them against an Intel CPU that is used in some embedded applications.
Remotely sensed, spatially continuous and high spatiotemporal resolution (hereafter referred to as high resolution) land surface temperature (LST) is a key parameter for studying the thermal environment and has important applications in many fields. However, difficult atmospheric conditions, sensor malfunctioning and scanning gaps between orbits frequently introduce spatial discontinuities into satellite-retri1eved LST products. For a single sensor, there is also a trade-off between temporal and spatial resolution and, therefore, it is impossible to obtain high temporal and spatial resolution simultaneously. In recent years the reconstruction and spatiotemporal fusion of LST products have become active research topics that aim at overcoming this limitation. They are two of most investigated approaches in thermal remote sensing and attract increasing attention, which has resulted in a number of different algorithms. However, to the best of our knowledge, currently no review exists that expatiates and summarizes the available LST reconstruction and spatiotemporal fusion methods and algorithms. This paper introduces the principles and theories behind LST reconstruction and spatiotemporal fusion and provides an overview of the published research and algorithms. We summarized three kinds of reconstruction methods for missing pixels (spatial, temporal and spatiotemporal methods), two kinds of reconstruction methods for cloudy pixels (Satellite Passive Microwave (PMW)-based and Surface Energy Balance (SEB)-based methods) and three kinds of spatiotemporal fusion methods (weighted function-based, unmixing-based and hybrid methods). The review concludes by summarizing validation methods and by identifying some promising future research directions for generating spatially continuous and high resolution LST products.
To make machine exhibit human-like abilities in the domains like robotics and conversation, social commonsense knowledge (SCK), i.e., common sense about social contexts and social roles, is absolutely necessarily. Therefor, our ultimate goal is to acquire large-scale SCK to support much more intelligent applications. Before that, we need to know clearly what is SCK and how to represent it, since automatic information processing requires data and knowledge are organized in structured and semantically related ways. For this reason, in this paper, we identify and formalize three basic types of SCK based on first-order theory. Firstly, we identify and formalize the interrelationships, such as having-role and having-social_relation, among social contexts, roles and players from the perspective of considering both contexts and roles as first-order citizens and not generating role instances. Secondly, we provide a four level structure to identify and formalize the intrinsic information, such as events and desires, of social contexts, roles and players, and illustrate the way of harvesting the intrinsic information of social contexts and roles from the exhibition of players in concrete contexts. And thirdly, enlightened by some observations of actual contexts, we further introduce and formalize the embedding of social contexts, and depict the way of excavating the intrinsic information of social contexts and roles from the embedded smaller and simpler contexts. The results of this paper lay the foundation not only for formalizing much more complex SCK but also for acquiring these three basic types of SCK.
To bring Spin Wave (SW) based computing paradigm into practice and develop ultra low power Magnonic circuits and computation platforms, one needs basic logic gates that operate and can be cascaded within the SW domain without requiring back and forth conversion between the SW and voltage domains. To achieve this, SW gates have to possess intrinsic fanout capabilities, be input-output data representation coherent, and reconfigurable. In this paper, we address the first and the last requirements and propose a novel 4-output programmable SW logic. First, we introduce the gate structure and demonstrate that, by adjusting the gate output detection method, it can parallelly evaluate any 4-element subset of the 2-input Boolean function set AND, NAND, OR, NOR, XOR, and XNOR. Furthermore, we adjust the structure such that all its 4 outputs produce SWs with the same energy and demonstrate that it can evaluate Boolean function sets while providing fanout capabilities ranging from 1 to 4. We validate our approach by instantiating and simulating different gate configurations such as 4-output AND/OR, 4-output XOR/XNOR, output energy balanced 4-output AND/OR, and output energy balanced 4-output XOR/XNOR by means of Object Oriented Micromagnetic Framework (OOMMF) simulations. Finally, we evaluate the performance of our proposal in terms of delay and energy consumption and compare it against existing state-of-the-art SW and 16nm CMOS counterparts. The results indicate that for the same functionality, our approach provides 3x and 16x energy reduction, when compared with conventional SW and 16nm CMOS implementations, respectively.
The epidemiology has recently witnessed great advances based on computational models. Its scope and impact are getting wider thanks to the new data sources feeding analytical frameworks and models. Besides traditional variables considered in epidemiology, large-scale social patterns can be now integrated in real time with multi-source data bridging the gap between different scales. In a hyper-connected world, models and analysis of interactions and social behaviors are key to understand and stop outbreaks. Big Data along with apps are enabling for validating and refining models with real world data at scale, as well as new applications and frameworks to map and track diseases in real time or optimize the necessary resources and interventions such as testing and vaccination strategies. Digital epidemiology is positioning as a discipline necessary to control epidemics and implement actionable protocols and policies. In this review we address the research areas configuring current digital epidemiology: transmission and propagation models and descriptions based on human networks and contact tracing, mobility analysis and spatio-temporal propagation of infectious diseases and the emerging field of infodemics that comprises the study of information and knowledge propagation related to epidemics. Digital epidemiology has the potential to create new operational mechanisms for prevention and mitigation, monitoring of the evolution of epidemics, assessing their impact and evaluating the pharmaceutical and non-pharmaceutical measures to fight the outbreaks.
Manipulating crystal structure and the corresponding electronic properties in topological quantum materials provides opportunities for the exploration of exotic physics and practical applications. As prototypical topological materials, the bulk MoTe2 and WTe2 are identified to be Weyl semimetals and higher-order topological insulators. The non-centrosymmetric interlayer stacking in MoTe2 and WTe2 causes the Weyl semimetal phase while the intralayer Peierls distortion causes the higher-order topological insulator phase. Here, by ultrafast electron diffraction and TDDFT-MD simulations, we report the photoinduced concurrent intralayer and interlayer structural transitions in both the low temperature Td and room temperature 1T' phase of MoTe2 and WTe2. The ultrafast reduction of the intralayer Peierls distortion within 0.3 ps is demonstrated to be driven by Mo-Mo (W-W) bond stretching and dissociation. Both the interlayer shear displacement and the suppression of the intralayer Peierls distortion are identified to be caused by photon excitation, which is a different mechanism compared to the THz field and optical field driven structural transitions reported previously. The revealed intralayer and interlayer structural transitions, provide an ultrafast switch from the rich topological nontrivial phases, such as the Weyl semimetal phase and (higher-order) topological insulator phase, to trivial phase in bulk MoTe2 and WTe2 and most monolayer TMDCs. Our work elucidates the pathway of the intralayer and interlayer structural transitions and the associated topological switches in atomic and femtosecond spatiotemporal scale, and sheds light on new opportunities for the ultrafast manipulation of topological and other exotic properties by photon excitation.
Petri nets have found widespread use among many application domains, not least due to their human-friendly graphical syntax for the composition of interacting distributed and asynchronous processes and services, based in partial-order dependencies and concurrent executions. Petri nets also come with abstract semantics, and mathematical methods for compositional synthesis, structural checks and behavioural analysis. These have led to the use of various kinds of nets for real-time, distributed and parallel programming languages, software and services systems, with a view to their interfaces and interaction protocols. These affordances make Petri nets invaluable for distributed software architecture approaches focused on components, their mutual dependencies and environment-facing interactions. Quantum computing -- and in particular quantum software engineering -- is in its infancy and could benefit from the accumulated insights of software architecture research and of net theory, its methods, and its applications. In this paper, we establish a connection between Petri nets and quantum systems, such that net theory and the component architecture of nets may help in the synthesis and analysis of abstract software models and their interface protocols in hybrid classical-and-quantum programming languages and services systems. We leverage some insights from net formalisms for software specification for a versatile recipe to bake quantum into extant Petri net flavours, and prove universality and compositionality of Petri nets for quantum programming.
In this paper, the compiled long-term optical and infrared measurements of some blazars are used to analyze the variation properties and the optical data are used to search for periodicity evidence in the lightcurve by means of the Jurkevich technique and the discrete correlation function (DCF) method. Following periods are found: 4.52-year for 3C 66A; 1.56 and 2.95 years for AO 0235+164;   14.4, 18.6 years for PKS 0735+178; 17.85 and 24.7 years for PKS 0754+100; 5.53 and 11.75 for OJ 287. 4.45, and 6.89 years for PKS 1215; 9 and 14.84 years for PKS 1219+285;   2.0, 13.5 and 22.5 for 3C273; 7.1 year for 3C279;   6.07 for PKS 1308+326; 3.0 and 16.5 years for PKS 1418+546;   2.0 and 9.35 years for PKS 1514-241; 18.18 for PKS 1807+698;   4.16 and 7.0 for 2155-304; 14 and 20 years for BL Lacertae. Some explanations have been discussed.
Interstellar turbulence has implications for the dispersal and mixing of the elements, cloud chemistry, cosmic ray scattering, and radio wave propagation through the ionized medium. This review discusses the observations and theory of these effects. Metallicity fluctuations are summarized, and the theory of turbulent transport of passive tracers is reviewed. Modeling methods, turbulent concentration of dust grains, and the turbulent washout of radial abundance gradients are discussed. Interstellar chemistry is affected by turbulent transport of various species between environments with different physical properties and by turbulent heating in shocks, vortical dissipation regions, and local regions of enhanced ambipolar diffusion. Cosmic rays are scattered and accelerated in turbulent magnetic waves and shocks, and they generate turbulence on the scale of their gyroradii. Radio wave scintillation is an important diagnostic for small scale turbulence in the ionized medium, giving information about the power spectrum and amplitude of fluctuations. The theory of diffraction and refraction is reviewed, as are the main observations and scintillation regions.
We have developed and implemented a self-consistent density functional method using standard norm-conserving pseudopotentials and a flexible, numerical LCAO basis set, which includes multiple-zeta and polarization orbitals. Exchange and correlation are treated with the local spin density or generalized gradient approximations. The basis functions and the electron density are projected on a real-space grid, in order to calculate the Hartree and exchange-correlation potentials and matrix elements, with a number of operations that scales linearly with the size of the system. We use a modified energy functional, whose minimization produces orthogonal wavefunctions and the same energy and density as the Kohn-Sham energy functional, without the need of an explicit orthogonalization. Additionally, using localized Wannier-like electron wavefunctions allows the computation time and memory, required to minimize the energy, to also scale linearly with the size of the system. Forces and stresses are also calculated efficiently and accurately, thus allowing structural relaxation and molecular dynamics simulations.
Grid technologies aim at enabling a coordinated resource-sharing and problem-solving capabilities over local and wide area networks and span locations, organizations, machine architectures and software boundaries. The heterogeneity of involved resources and the need for interoperability among different grid middlewares require the sharing of a common information model. Abstractions of different flavors of resources and services and conceptual schemas of domain specific entities require a collaboration effort in order to enable a coherent information services cooperation.   With this paper, we present the result of our experience in grid resources and services modelling carried out within the Grid Laboratory Uniform Environment (GLUE) effort, a joint US and EU High Energy Physics projects collaboration towards grid interoperability. The first implementation-neutral agreement on services such as batch computing and storage manager, resources such as the hierarchy cluster, sub-cluster, host and the storage library are presented. Design guidelines and operational results are depicted together with open issues and future evolutions.
A good organization model of multiple mobile robot should be able to improve the efficiency of the system, reduce the complication of robot interactions, and detract the difficulty of computation. From the sociology aspect of topology, structure and organization, this paper studies the multiple mobile robot organization formation and running mechanism in the dynamic, complicated and unknown environment. It presents and describes in detail a Hierarchical- Web Recursive Organization Model (HWROM) and forming algorithm. It defines the robot society leader; robotic team leader and individual robot as the same structure by the united framework and describes the organization model by the recursive structure. The model uses task-oriented and top-down method to dynamically build and maintain structures and organization. It uses market-based techniques to assign task, form teams and allocate resources in dynamic environment. The model holds several characteristics of self-organization, dynamic, conciseness, commonness and robustness.
We investigate pion superfluidity and its effect on meson properties and equation of state at finite temperature and isospin and baryon densities in the frame of standard flavor SU(2) NJL model. In mean field approximation to quarks and random phase approximation to mesons, the critical isospin chemical potential for pion superfluidity is exactly the pion mass in the vacuum, and corresponding to the isospin symmetry spontaneous breaking, there is in the pion superfluidity phase a Goldstone mode which is the linear combination of the normal sigma and charged pion modes. We calculate numerically the gap equations for the chiral and pion condensates, the phase diagrams, the meson spectra, and the equation of state, and compare them with that obtained in other effective models. The competitions between pion superfluidity and color superconductivity at finite baryon density and between pion and kaon superfluidity at finite strangeness density in flavor SU(3) NJL model are briefly discussed.
The notes were prepared for a series of talks that I gave in Hagen in late June and early July 2003, and, with some changes, in the University of La Lagu\~{n}a, the Canary Islands, in September, 2003.   They aim (i) to revisit some oldish material on abstract homotopy and simplicial ly enriched categories, that seems to be being used in today's resurgence of interest in the area and to try to view it in a new light, or perhaps from new directions; (ii) to introduce Segal categories and various other tools used by the Nice-Toulouse group of abstract homotopy theorists and link them into some of the older ideas; (iii) to introduce Joyal's quasicategories, and show how that theory links in with some old ideas of Boardman and Vogt, Dwyer and Kan, and Cordier and Porter; and finally to ask lots of questions of myself and of the reader.
The monograph gives a general geometric background of the theory of field interactions, strings and diffusion processes on spaces, superspaces and isospaces with higher order anisotropy and inhomogenity. Our approach proceeds by developing the concept of higher order anisotropic superspace which unify the logical and mathematical aspects of modern Kaluza-Klein theories and generalized Lagrange and Finsler geometry and leads to modelling of physical processes on higher order fiber bundles provided with nonlinear and distingushed connections and metric structures. The view adopted in the monograph is that a general field theory should incorporate all possible anisotropic and stochastic manifestations of classical and quantum interactions and, in consequence, a corresponding modification of basic principles and mathematical methods in formulation of physical theories. This book can be also considered as a pedagogical survey on the mentioned subjects.
The development of Noncommutative Geometry is creating a reworking and new possibilities in physics. This paper identifies some of the commutation and derivation structures that arise in particle and field interactions and fundamental symmetries. The requirements of coexisting structures, and their consistency, produce a mathematical framework that underlies a fundamental physics theory. Among other developments in Quantum theory of particles and fields are the symmetries of gauge fields and the Fermi-Bose symmetry of particles. These involve a gauge covariant derivation and the action functionals; and commutation algebras and Bogoliubov transforms. The non commutative Theta form introduces an additional and fundamental structure. This paper obtains the interrelations of various structures, and the conditions for the symmetries of Fermionic/Bosonic particles interacting with Yang Mills gauge fields. Many example physical systems are being solved, and the mathematical formalism is being created to understand the fundamental basis of physics.
We improve the theoretical predictions for the production of extra neutral gauge bosons at hadron colliders by implementing the Z' bosons in the MC@NLO generator and by computing their differential and total cross sections in joint p_T and threshold resummation. The two improved predictions are found to be in excellent agreement with each other for mass spectra, p_T spectra, and total cross sections, while the PYTHIA parton and ``power'' shower predictions usually employed for experimental analyses show significant shortcomings both in normalization and shape. The theoretical uncertainties from scale and parton density variations and non-perturbative effects are found to be 9%, 8%, and less than 5%, respectively, and thus under good control. The implementation of our improved predictions in terms of the new MC@NLO generator or resummed K factors in the analysis chains of the Tevatron and LHC experiments should be straightforward and lead to more precise determinations or limits of the Z' boson masses and/or couplings.
The 6dF Galaxy Survey provides a very large sample of galaxies with reliable measurements of Lick line indices and velocity dispersions. This sample can be used to explore the correlations between mass and stellar population parameters such as age, metallicity and [alpha/Fe]. Preliminary results from such an analysis are presented here, and show that age and metallicity are significantly anti-correlated for both passive and star-forming galaxies. Passive galaxies have strong correlations between mass and metallicity and between age and alpha-element over-abundance, which combine to produce a downsizing relation between age and mass. For old passive galaxies, the different trends of M/L with mass and luminosity in different passbands result from the differential effect of the mass-metallicity relation on the luminosities in each passband. Future work with this sample will examine the Fundamental Plane of bulge-dominated galaxies and the influence of environment on relations between stellar population parameters and mass.
Two discoveries have greatly impacted understanding relevant to the origination and emplacement of petroleum and natural gas deposits. One discovery, pertaining to hydrocarbon formation from methane broadens significantly potential regions where abiotic petroleum and natural gas deposits might be found. The other, discovery of the physical impossibility of Earth-mantle convection, restricts the range and domain of geodynamic behavior, and leads to new insights on the formation of petroleum and natural gas deposits. This article highlights the impact and implications of those discoveries, especially as they relate to petroleum and natural gas exploration in India and throughout the world. From the reasoning developed here, the generality of the considerations involved, the understanding developed with respect to the East African Rift System, and the experience garnered from the larger and older Siberian Traps, the prognosis and potential for the region beneath the Deccan Traps of India to eventually become a major source of petroleum and natural gas seems quite favorable.
In this work, water distribution systems are regarded as large sparse planar graphs with complex network characteristics and the relationship between important topological features of the network (i.e. structural robustness and loop redundancy) and system resilience, viewed as the antonym to structural vulnerability, are assessed. Deterministic techniques from complex networks and spectral graph theory are utilized to quantify well-connectedness and estimate loop redundancy in the studied benchmark networks. By using graph connectivity and expansion properties, system robustness against node/link failures and isolation of the demand nodes from the source(s) are assessed and network tolerance against random failures and targeted attacks on their bridges and cut sets are analyzed. Among other measurements, two metrics of meshed-ness and algebraic connectivity are proposed as candidates for quantification of redundancy and robustness, respectively, in optimization design models. A brief discussion on the scope and limitations of the provided measurements in the analysis of operational reliability of water distribution systems is presented.
The astrochemistry of the HnO+ (n=1..3) ions is important as the main gas-phase formation route for water, and as tracer of the interstellar ionization rate by cosmic rays and other processes. While interstellar H3O+ has been known since the early 1990's, interstellar OH+ and H2O+ have only recently been detected using the Herschel space observatory and also from the ground. This paper reviews detections of HnO+ toward external galaxies and compares with ground-based work. The similarities and differences of the HnO+ chemistry within the Galaxy and beyond are discussed. Special attention is given to the low H2O/H3O+ ratio in M82 of only 3.3, suggesting rapid H2O photodissociation, and the high apparent OH+ and H2O+ abundances in Mrk 231, suggesting radiative excitation and/or formation pumping. Photodissociation rates for H3O+ and collisional cross-sections for OH+ and H2O+ with H, He and electrons are needed to test these interpretations.
The paper discusses relationships between aesthetics theory and mathematical models of mind. Mathematical theory describes abilities for concepts, emotions, instincts, imagination, adaptation, learning, cognition, language, approximate hierarchy of the mind and evolution of these abilities. The knowledge instinct is the foundation of higher mental abilities and aesthetic emotions. Aesthetic emotions are present in every act of perception and cognition, and at the top of the mind hierarchy they become emotions of the beautiful. The learning ability is essential to everyday perception and cognition as well as to the historical development of understanding of the meaning of life. I discuss a controversy surrounding this issue. Conclusions based on cognitive and mathematical models confirm that judgments of taste are at once subjective and objective, and I discuss what it means. The paper relates cognitive and mathematical concepts to those of philosophy and aesthetics, from Plato to our days, clarifies cognitive mechanisms and functions of the beautiful, and resolves many difficulties of contemporary aesthetics.
The affine and degenerate affine Birman-Murakami-Wenzl (BMW) algebras arise naturally in the context of Schur-Weyl duality for orthogonal and symplectic quantum groups and Lie algebras, respectively. Cyclotomic BMW algebras, affine and cyclotomic Hecke algebras, and their degenerate versions are quotients. In this paper we explain how the affine and degenerate affine BMW algebras are tantalizers (tensor power centralizer algebras) by defining actions of the affine braid group and the degenerate affine braid algebra on tensor space and showing that, in important cases, these actions induce actions of the affine and degenerate affine BMW algebras. We then exploit the connection to quantum groups and Lie algebras to determine universal parameters for the affine and degenerate affine BMW algebras. Finally, we show that the universal parameters are central elements--the higher Casimir elements for orthogonal and symplectic enveloping algebras and quantum groups.
Recent trend of mobile computing is emerging toward executing resource-intensive applications in mobile devices regardless of underlying resource restrictions (e.g. limited processor and energy) that necessitate imminent technologies. Prosperity of cloud computing in stationary computers breeds Mobile Cloud Computing (MCC) technology that aims to augment computing and storage capabilities of mobile devices besides conserving energy. However, MCC is more heterogeneous and unreliable (due to wireless connectivity) compare to cloud computing. Problems like variations in OS, data fragmentation, and security and privacy discourage and decelerate implementation and pervasiveness of MCC. In this paper, we describe MCC as a horizontal heterogeneous ecosystem and identify thirteen critical metrics and approaches that influence on mobile-cloud solutions and success of MCC. We divide them into three major classes, namely ubiquity, trust, and energy efficiency and devise a tripod of requirements in MCC. Our proposed tripod shows that success of MCC is achievable by reducing mobility challenges (e.g. seamless connectivity, fragmentation), increasing trust, and enhancing energy efficiency.
We study the vector spaces and integer lattices of cuts and flows associated with an arbitrary finite CW complex, and their relationships to group invariants including the critical group of a complex. Our results extend to higher dimension the theory of cuts and flows in graphs, most notably the work of Bacher, de la Harpe and Nagnibeda. We construct explicit bases for the cut and flow spaces, interpret their coefficients topologically, and give sufficient conditions for them to be integral bases of the cut and flow lattices. Second, we determine the precise relationships between the discriminant groups of the cut and flow lattices and the higher critical and cocritical groups with error terms corresponding to torsion (co)homology. As an application, we generalize a result of Kotani and Sunada to give bounds for the complexity, girth, and connectivity of a complex in terms of Hermite's constant.
We present a short review of geometric and algebraic approach to causal cones and describe cone preserving transformations and their relationship with causal structure related to special and general theory of relativity. We describe Lie groups, especially matrix Lie groups, homogeneous and symmetric spaces and causal cones and certain implications of these concepts in special and general theory of relativity related to causal structure and topology of space-time. We compare and contrast the results on causal relations with those in the literature for general space-times and compare these relations with K-causal maps. We also describe causal orientations and their implications for space-time topology and discuss some more topologies on space-time which arise as an application of domain theory.
The internal structures and compositions of Uranus and Neptune are not well constrained due to the uncertainty in rotation period and flattening, as well as the relatively large error bars on the gravitational coefficients. While Uranus and Neptune are similar in mass and radius, they differ in other physical properties such as thermal emission, obliquity, and inferred atmospheric enrichment. In this letter we consider the uncertainty in the planetary rotation periods, show that rotation periods more consistent with the measured oblateness imply that Uranus and Neptune have different internal structures, and speculate on the source of that difference. We conclude that Uranus and Neptune might have very different structures and/or compositions despite their similar masses and radii. We point out that understanding these differences can have important implications for our view of the formation and evolution of Uranus and Neptune as well as intermediate-mass extra-solar planets in general.
We present Keck/DEIMOS spectroscopy of resolved stars in the M31 satellites And XXVIII & And XXIX. We show that these are likely self-bound galaxies based on 18 and 24 members in And XXVIII & And XXIX, respectively. And XXVIII has a systemic velocity of -331.1 +/- 1.8 km/s and velocity dispersion of 4.9+/-1.6 km/s, implying a mass-to-light ratio (within r_1/2) of ~ 44 +/- 41. And XXIX has a systemic velocity of -194.4 +/- 1.5 km/s and velocity dispersion of 5.7+/-1.2 km/s, implying a mass-to-light ratio (within r_1/2) of ~ 124 +/- 72. The internal kinematics and implied masses of And XXVIII & And XXIX are similar to dwarf spheroidals (dSphs) of comparable luminosities, implying that these objects are dark matter-dominated dwarf galaxies. Despite the large projected distances from their host (380 and 188 kpc), the kinematics of these dSph suggest that they are bound M31 satellites.
We construct analytical forms in the impact parameter $b$-space for the real and imaginary amplitudes describing elastic pp and $\rm p \bar p $ scattering. The amplitudes converted analytically to the momentum transfer $t$-space have magnitudes, slopes, curvatures, zeros, signs, obeying phenomenological and theoretical expectations, and describe with high precision all details of the data, in the full-t range, and for energies from 20 GeV to 7 TeV. The connection of forward with large-$;t;$ behavior allows precise determination of total cross-sections, slopes and other scattering parameters. We study the properties and the energy dependence of the $b$-space profile functions, observing that the real part has fundamental influence in the structure of $d\sigma/dt$ at intermediate and large $;t;$ values. We discuss the 540/546 GeV and 1.8/1.96 TeV data from CERN SPS and Fermilab TEVATRON and the 7 TeV results from TOTEM measurements at LHC, and investigate the extrapolation to 14 TeV and higher energies.
In current era, the involvement of technologies like virtualization, consolidation and cloud computing, and adoption of free and open source software in designing and deploying e-governance that can reduce the total cost associated with and hence the financial burden abide by the state and central governments. The success of any e-governance project depends upon its utilization by the intended group and so there accessibility needs to be enhanced drastically by reengineered framework. Here, we design an Improved Service Delivery and Cost Effective Framework for e-Governance that will be useful for success of e-governance projects and the delivery mechanism in India by using free and open access software for development and deployment of e-governance applications, virtualization and consolidation techniques for management of e-services and cloud computing for enhancing the accessibility of services.
Graphene Oxide and reduced Graphene Oxide are intriguing materials for photonics and electronic devices both for intrinsic characteristics and as precursors for the synthesis of graphene. Whatever the application and the engineering purpose, a fine control of the chemical and physical properties is required since the performances of graphene based systems depend on the reduction state of Graphene Oxide and can be strongly affected by interfaces interactions and neighboring effects. Then, a method for a local control of electric, electronic and chemical properties is required. The synergic application of Near Edge X ray Absorption Fine Structure Spectroscopy and Conductive Atomic Force Microscopy is a powerful way for such purpose allowing a full characterization of simple and composite samples, including specimens with dielectric discontinuities. Graphene Oxide/Gold (GO/Au) and Graphene Oxide/Silicon Oxide (GO/SiO2) have been selected as proof by example. The results show that the approach allow to relate chemical, electronic and physical properties to morphological features and local conductance behavior.
We further develop the general theory of the area reactivity model that provides an alternative description of the diffusion-influenced reaction of an isolated receptor-ligand pair in terms of a generalized Feynman-Kac equation. We analyze both the irreversible and reversible reaction and derive the equation of motion for the survival and separation probability. Furthermore, we discuss the notion of a time-dependent rate coefficient within the alternative model and obtain a number of relations between the rate coefficient, the survival and separation probabilities and the reaction rate. Finally, we calculate asymptotic and approximate expressions for the (irreversible) rate coefficient, the binding probability, the average lifetime of the bound state and discuss on- and off-rates in this context. Throughout our treatment, we will point out similarities and differences between the area and the classical contact reactivity model. The presented analysis and obtained results provide a theoretical framework that will facilitate the comparison of experiment and model predictions.
We establish some well-posedness and comparison results for BSDEs driven by one- and multi-dimensional martingales. On the one hand, our approach is largely motivated by results and methods developed in Carbone et al. (2008) and El Karoui and Huang (1997). On the other hand, our results are also motivated by the recent developments in arbitrage pricing theory under funding costs and collateralization. A new version of the comparison theorem for BSDEs driven by a multi-dimensional martingale is established and applied to the pricing and hedging BSDEs studied in Bielecki and Rutkowski (2014) and Nie and Rutkowski (2014). This allows us to obtain the existence and uniqueness results for unilateral prices and to demonstrate the existence of no-arbitrage bounds for a collateralized contract when both agents have non-negative initial endowments.
This volume contains the proceedings of FOCLASA 2014, the 13th International Workshop on the Foundations of Coordination Languages and Self-Adaptive Systems. FOCLASA 2014 was held in Rome, Italy, on September 9, 2014 as a satellite event of CONCUR 2014, the 25th International Conference on Concurrency Theory.   Modern software systems are distributed, concurrent, mobile, and often involve composition of heterogeneous components and stand-alone services. Service coordination and self-adaptation constitute the core characteristics of distributed and service-oriented systems. Coordination languages and formal approaches to modelling and reasoning about self-adaptive behaviour help to simplify the development of complex distributed service-based systems, enable functional correctness proofs and improve reusability and maintainability of such systems. The goal of the FOCLASA workshop is to put together researchers and practitioners of the aforementioned fields, to share and identify common problems, and to devise general solutions in the context of coordination languages and self-adaptive systems.
In this reminiscence I discuss the influence of Henry Eyring and John Barker upon my life and work. Others, especially my family, have been of even greater personal influence. However, these two great and grand men were of tremendous scientific influence. Of course, others who came before Eyring and Barker, especially Boltzmann and van der Waals and later Onsager and Eyring's contemporary, Kirkwood, have been influential, but only indirectly as I never met them. Eyring and Barker are not the only scientists who have inspired me. Many who influenced me have contributed articles to this special issue or have worked with me. I single out Eyring and Barker because I met them early in my career and because they have passed away and are now present only in spirit. They are gone but should not be forgotten; I take this occasion to remind the readers about these two outstanding scientists and fine men and offer this reminiscence as thanks to them.
MOL-D database is a collection of cross-sections and rate coefficients for specific collisional processes and a web service within the Serbian Virtual Observatory (SerVO) and the Virtual Atomic and Molecular Data Center (VAMDC). This database contains photo-dissociation cross-sections for the individual ro-vibrational states of the diatomic molecular ions and rate coefficients for the atom-Rydberg atom chemi-ionization and inverse electron-ion-atom chemi-recombination processes. At the moment it contains data for photodissociation cross-sections of hydrogen H2+ and helium He2+ molecular ions and the corresponding averaged thermal photodissociation cross-sections. The ro-vibrational energy states and the corresponding dipole matrix elements are provided as well. Hydrogen and helium molecular ion data are important for calculation of solar and stellar atmosphere models and for radiative transport, as well as for kinetics of other astrophysical and laboratory plasma (i.e. early Universe).
The Audio/Visual Emotion Challenge and Workshop (AVEC 2016) "Depression, Mood and Emotion" will be the sixth competition event aimed at comparison of multimedia processing and machine learning methods for automatic audio, visual and physiological depression and emotion analysis, with all participants competing under strictly the same conditions. The goal of the Challenge is to provide a common benchmark test set for multi-modal information processing and to bring together the depression and emotion recognition communities, as well as the audio, video and physiological processing communities, to compare the relative merits of the various approaches to depression and emotion recognition under well-defined and strictly comparable conditions and establish to what extent fusion of the approaches is possible and beneficial. This paper presents the challenge guidelines, the common data used, and the performance of the baseline system on the two tasks.
This paper critically assesses wireless broadband internet infrastructure, in the rural and remote communities of WDR in terms of supply, demand and utilisation. Only 8 of 20 towns have ADSL/ADSL2+, and only 3 towns have 4G mobile network coverage. Conversely all of the towns have 2G/3G mobile network coverage but have problems with speed, reliability of service and capacity to handle data traffic loads at peak times. Satellite broadband internet for remote areas is also patchy at best. Satisfaction with existing wireless broadband internet services is highly variable across rural and remote communities in WDR. Finally we provide suggestions to improve broadband internet access for rural and remote communities. Public and private investment and sharing of wired and wireless broadband internet infrastructure is needed to provide the backhaul networks and 4G mobile and fixed wireless services to ensure high speed, reliable and affordable broadband services for rural and remote communities.
Methylammonium lead trihalide perovskite solar cells (CH3NH3PbY3, where Y = I(3-x)Brx=1-3, I(3-x)Clx=1-3, Br(3-x)Cl x=1-3, and IBrCl) are photonic semiconductors. Researches on various fundamental and technological aspects of these materials are extensively on-going to make them stable environmentally and for commercialization. Research studies addressing these materials as organometallic are massively and repeatedly appearing in very reputable, highly cited and high impact peer-reviewed research publications, including, for example, Energy and Environmental Science, Nature Chemistry, Nature Communication, Advanced Materials, Science, ACS Nano, and many other chemistry and materials based journals of the Wiley, Elsevier, Springer and Macmillan Publishers, and the Royal and American Society Sciences. Herein, we candidly addresses the question: whether should scientists in the perovskite and nanomaterials science communities refer CH3NH3PbY3 and their mixed halogen derivatives as organometallic?
Caffe provides multimedia scientists and practitioners with a clean and modifiable framework for state-of-the-art deep learning algorithms and a collection of reference models. The framework is a BSD-licensed C++ library with Python and MATLAB bindings for training and deploying general-purpose convolutional neural networks and other deep models efficiently on commodity architectures. Caffe fits industry and internet-scale media needs by CUDA GPU computation, processing over 40 million images a day on a single K40 or Titan GPU ($\approx$ 2.5 ms per image). By separating model representation from actual implementation, Caffe allows experimentation and seamless switching among platforms for ease of development and deployment from prototyping machines to cloud environments. Caffe is maintained and developed by the Berkeley Vision and Learning Center (BVLC) with the help of an active community of contributors on GitHub. It powers ongoing research projects, large-scale industrial applications, and startup prototypes in vision, speech, and multimedia.
We present a robust and scalable preconditioner for the solution of large-scale linear systems that arise from the discretization of elliptic PDEs amenable to rank compression. The preconditioner is based on hierarchical low-rank approximations and the cyclic reduction method. The setup and application phases of the preconditioner achieve log-linear complexity in memory footprint and number of operations, and numerical experiments exhibit good weak and strong scalability at large processor counts in a distributed memory environment. Numerical experiments with linear systems that feature symmetry and nonsymmetry, definiteness and indefiniteness, constant and variable coefficients demonstrate the preconditioner applicability and robustness. Furthermore, it is possible to control the number of iterations via the accuracy threshold of the hierarchical matrix approximations and their arithmetic operations, and the tuning of the admissibility condition parameter. Together, these parameters allow for optimization of the memory requirements and performance of the preconditioner.
Global warming is affecting our Earth's environment. For example, sea level is rising with thermal expansion of water and fresh water input from the melting of continental ice sheets due to human-induced global warming. However, observing and modeling Earth's surface change has larger uncertainties in the changing rate and the scale and distribution of impacts due to the lack of direct measurements. Nowadays, the Earth observation from space provides a unique opportunity to monitor surface mass transfer and deformations related to climate change, particularly the global positioning system (GPS) and the Gravity Recovery and Climate Experiment (GRACE) with capability of estimating global land and ocean water mass. In this paper, the Earth's surface fluid variations and deformations are derived and analyzed from global GPS and GRACE measurements. The fluids loading deformation and its interaction with Earth system, e.g., Earth Rotation, are further presented and discussed.
